---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/meetings/2006/04/seattle/dcmes-changes/2006-02-03.discussion-digest.html"
---

<pre>
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Fri, 3 Feb 2006 10:04:36 -0000
Reply-To: A mailing list for the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative's Usage Board &lt;DC-USAGE@JISCMAIL.AC.UK&gt;
Sender: A mailing list for the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative's Usage Board &lt;DC-USAGE@JISCMAIL.AC.UK&gt;
From: Andy Powell &lt;andy.powell@EDUSERV.ORG.UK&gt;
Subject: FW: Encoding scheme used for dc.language - heads up
To: DC-USAGE@JISCMAIL.AC.UK

For those who haven't spotted it, there is a little flurry of discussion
on the dc-government list suggesting that RFC 3066 is perhaps now a
little dated in its approach to 2 vs. 3-letter language codes.

The comment for dc:language currently suggests that value strings should
conform to that RFC whereas it is possible that concensus within
eGovernment metadata circles is to use 3-letter codes (as also suggested
by Joseph Busch in his response to the dc-corporate WG).

Andy
--
Head of Development, Eduserv Foundation
<a href="http://www.eduserv.org.uk/foundation/">http://www.eduserv.org.uk/foundation/</a>
andy.powell@eduserv.org.uk
+44 (0)1225 474319
-----Original Message-----
From: Dublin Core Element Set government and public sector resource
[mailto:DC-GOVERNMENT@JISCMAIL.AC.UK] On Behalf Of Andy Powell
Sent: 03 February 2006 09:56
To: DC-GOVERNMENT@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
Subject: Re: Encoding scheme used for dc.language - Province of Ontario

Martin,
Thanks for the summary. I very much agree. Speaking as a member of the
Usage Board, I think that if this working group can reach a concensus
view that the current DC guidance to use RFC 3066 is wrong and, better
still, suggest some revised wording for the dc:language comment, then
I'm sure that a good case could be made to the UB for change. (Note,
I'm not necessarily promising that change would be forthcoming! :-) ).

Note that the UB is in the process of considering some minor changes to
the comment for dc:language anyway, because the current wording gives
both 'en' and 'eng' as valid examples for English, the second of which
falls foul of the "2-letter rule" in the RFC.

Note also that in "qualified DC" it is already perfectly acceptable to
use the dcterms:ISO639-2 encoding scheme to explicitly indicate that
3-letter codes are in use. E.g. (in XHTML meta tags):

&lt;meta name=3D"DC.language" scheme=3D"DCTERMS.ISO639-2" content=3D"fre" =
/&gt;

I presume that when using this encoding scheme, alternative forms of
3-letter codes are allowed (where they exist), e.g.

&lt;meta name=3D"DC.language" scheme=3D"DCTERMS.ISO639-2" content=3D"fra" =
/&gt;

is also valid?

Andy
--
Head of Development, Eduserv Foundation
<a href="http://www.eduserv.org.uk/foundation/">http://www.eduserv.org.uk/foundation/</a>
andy.powell@eduserv.org.uk
+44 (0)1225 474319

&gt; -----Original Message-----
&gt; From: Dublin Core Element Set government and public sector resource
&gt; [mailto:DC-GOVERNMENT@JISCMAIL.AC.UK] On Behalf Of Martin Ford
&gt; Sent: 03 February 2006 06:34
&gt; To: DC-GOVERNMENT@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
&gt; Subject: Re: Encoding scheme used for dc.language - Province of
&gt; Ontario
&gt;
&gt; So really we are back to the first question:
&gt;
&gt; Who is using which part and why?
&gt;
&gt; In short, if you use Dublin Core use part 1 but if more than just
&gt; Canada is using part 2 and there is good justification for using part
&gt; 2 we need to get the DC ruling changed.
&gt; Denmark says it is using part 1. So far that is 1-1 a draw.
&gt; As I see it, on the surface, part 2 is better for cultural and
&gt; linguistic adaptability it is better for cross domain work such as
&gt; using with GI standards. I think these days part
&gt; 2 does have more codes BUT the DC ruling allows for that by stating
&gt; you can use those codes from part 2 that are not in part 1. However, I

&gt; will not recommend anyone to break the DC ruling and use part 2 that
&gt; to me is anarchy. So as I said we all use part 1 in DC usage or we
&gt; change the ruling. To do the later we need to know:
&gt;
&gt; Who is using which part and why?
&gt;
&gt; This is a short-term issue. There is a bigger problem for the future,
&gt; as we will never get complete agreement on this in a world that is
&gt; ever changing we need to develop a way that will meet the changes as
&gt; they happen rather than switching standards.
&gt;
&gt; Regards.
&gt;
&gt; Martin Ford
</pre>
