# SRAP 2025-09-30 Review Minutes

### Attendees
- Present: Niklas (chair), Argie (scribe), Karen, Nishad, Osma, Phil, Sunny 
- Regrets: Tom, Antoine, Joe, Dan

### Approve minutes of previous call
- https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/minutes/2025-09-09.md
  - approved
- note: from now on we will make notes in the agenda and create the meeting minutes from that

### Explanation of voting rules (Niklas)
- Karen: is there a voting process on GitHub?
- Osma, experience from other processes: free-flowing discussion in the issues, then a comment with a more formal, finalized proposal (needs to be clearly marked as such) and voting with thumbs up/down (example: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/72); distinction between strawman vote and final vote
- Niklas: we don't need a quorum, Zoom calls would serve to take the temperature
- the task of formulating/marking the proposal in the issue and declaring when the decision is taken falls to the UB chairs

### Discussion of handling of proposed changes to SRAP (extracted from below)
- for isolated changes with no bigger design ramifications: create PR for the change
- Osma: chairs should write a comment in the issue with the proposed change and put it to a vote, and then if it is approved the SRAP WG can implement it
- Osma: each change right away or in bulk (preferred)? 
- recommendation: set deadline for voting to next review meeting!

### Issues from [Project board](https://github.com/orgs/dcmi/projects/4/views/1)

Please prepare to discuss the following issues and take decisions on the call; ideally read and comment in Github beforehand.

#### 1. [BIBO properties for SRAP](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/74)
- Karen: what makes SRAP a DC application profile?
- what is the target audience? Osma: main audience is academic libraries and their digital repositories but of course others can make use of it as well; anyone who needs to represent detailed metadata about scholarly resources
- Niklas: a DC AP seeks to minimize as much as possible with a certain intent in mind, so that it is still applicable in similar contexts
- Karen: which properties cannot be found anywhere?
- Karen: also, proposition: create list on DCMI website of APs that use DCTAP
- Nishad: early definition --> Singapore Framework; DC AP is a collection of elements that is in a DCMI namespace or namespace that is "very close" to DCMI (such as foaf); two aspects: what is the specific use case? and how do we address the community, what is it that we offer them?
- Niklas: yes, and bibo is one of those namespaces under our purview (additions need to be approved by DCMI UB); how about schema.org? too much to be pulled into "DCMI space"?
- Phil: size of the vocabulary you are drawing from is not the issue, we could just take one or two terms; not sure if these are even RDF profiles? important  is if these are similar in intent, design, implications
- Osma: yes, it's about similar philosophies; schema.org comes with a lot of baggage, we mostly did not want to import that; but accessibility is one aspect that is too much for SRAP and there is an ongoing effort on the schema.org side; same with bibframe, we did not even consider copying from there
- Niklas: state of governance for schema.org unclear, we will seek Dan's advice; whatever comes out of this SRAP review would ideally be mapped to schema.org; weak semantics although bibo does use a bit of OWL
- Karen: how do we make the decision for this issue? do we look at each one? maybe we should add domain, range, and definition to each one in the list
- Niklas: I will do that and then we can revisit the issue

#### 2. [Add :URL to BIBO](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/78)
- Phil: is bibo:uri used in SRAP at all?
- Niklas: why does bibo define identifier and it is not a subterm of dct:identifier?
- Phil: having URI and URL in a standard will create a lot of work to make the difference clear, should we not avoid that? people use them interchangeably and in function of the times the vocabulary was created in
- Osma: a non-differentiating solution is fine by me but not sure if bibo:uri is suitable for this purpose
- Phil: will the value be an actual URI? or is the main purpose to give an address that makes the download possible?
- Karen: range? literal? does that matter?
- Niklas: from consumer perspective would never assume that bibo:uri represents the resource; what if someones wants to specifically say that this is a landing page and give metadata for that etc.?
- Karen: will cataloguers usually even have that information? too big a burden on the people creating the data?
- Osma: if we were to use bibo:uri we would need to adjust the SRAP a little bit
- about handling of changes, see above

#### 3. [Add :Funder and :Funding to BIBO](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/77)
- we looked at rioxx and schema.org, copied the solution from schema.org and made sure we can represent what rioxx can as well
- Karen: "grant" was the trigger for this need
- Phil: nowadays funder and funding is very relevant to scholarly articles, so no objection to the addition
- Karen: domainIncludes and rangeIncludes discussion, should we recheck all the properties? -- might have implications for bibo as well
- Karen: create grant class in bibo but not restrict domain/range of funder and funding property to give more usage flexibility?
- Karen: funder and funding are not clearly defined enough; Osma: funding could be renamed into fundingSource? Phil: not really clearer, how is that different from funder? funding is a property of creative works and points to the funding scheme it was created under and the amount; but then maybe these metadata items should be added as well?; Karen: confusing that class is grant but what is the property for grant? Osma: funding!
- Karen: two options -- link to a URI or a string (Argie: so object property or data property?)
- Niklas: qualified role pattern, will be solved by RDF 1.2 but that won't be around for another year
- minimum way to proceed: make the definitions clear enough so that users pick the right one; also link to the examples in the issue
- Karen: funding points to grant, grant has the funder and the identifier, a diagram would make that clear
- Niklas: Grant from schema.org -- no domain and range of agent, also see https://schema.org/funder (direct) ; https://schema.org/funding (qualified structure) -> comment in issue
- Phil: is that too specific to a scholarly research vocabulary for a general purpose bibliographic ontology like bibo: ? unsure about what is intended for bibo; is this the right group to make decisions about bibo?; Nishad: bibo is stricly under purview of DCMI UB; Niklas: we need to include DCMI UB members that are not involved in this review process

#### 4. [Add :embargoDateRange to BIBO (or DCTerms)](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/81)
- ... postponed
