# SRAP 2025-11-25 Review minutes

### Links

- This document: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/minutes/2025-11-25.md
- Project board: https://github.com/orgs/dcmi/projects/4/views/1
- Process: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/process.md
- Decisions: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/decisions.md

### Attendees
Attended: Niklas (chair), Argie (scribe), Joe, Kalli, Karen, Nishad, Osma, Phil, Tom
Regrets: Antoine, Sunny

> [!NOTE]
> Please comment on the issues at the latest 16 hours before the call, to allow for time zone differences between participants.

## Minutes of previous call

- https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/minutes/2025-11-11.md

------

### General notes
-  Tom is putting all decisions in a decisions document (see above). Additions to bibo and dcterms will be done in bulk by using PRs. UB chairs will edit namespace documents; Osma will edit SRAP documents.
-  Osma: Changes to vocabularies should probably be done first, and then the WG would adapt the documentation of SRAP, and then we can talk about the big picture for SRAP.

------

### BIBO accessLink
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/78

What should the range should be? Proposal: `xsd:anyURI`.
Karen: What is the implied range if there is none?
Karen: We should go with `rdfs:Literal` since it is consistent with the rest of bibo (there are no other values for range in bibo).

__APPROVED 2025-11-25__
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/78#issuecomment-3517457637

```
bibo:accessLink a owl:DatatypeProperty ;
    rdfs:subPropertyOf bibo:identifier ;
    rdfs:range rdfs:Literal ;
    rdfs:label "accessLink"@en ;
    rdfs:comment "The download location or access point for the resource."@en .
```
__NOTE 2025-11-25__: Fix bibo:isbn in BIBO by adding missing range of rdfs:Literal. Note in Decisions document.

------

### DCTERMS accessibilityNote
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/79

STRAWMAN VOTE for accessibilityNote
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/79#issuecomment-3516960800

Osma: Talked with colleagues and they liked the name "accessibilityNote" but did not like the current definition. "Universal access" is not clear. They promised to come up with a new one but did not do so yet. They also may come up with additional structured property in addition: so far there is only a short list of possible values but it is planned to expand it (most likely to be a subset of the schema.org one).

Should we have a non-structured and a structured property?

Karen: Could we have something that has either a literal or an IRI as value?

Karen: How does Bibframe cover that? 

Kalli: It does not really cover that at all yet. Schema.org has linkable items that however are not described in RDF.

Osma: When you have one property with structured values and one free-form property then the structured values can cover the bigger picture and the free form can fill in the details.
Karen: SRAP has not defined "mandatory" and "repeatable", so users could just repeat instances of the property.

Phil: The intention is usually to make accessibility features machine-readable for technical implementations -- very wary of getting into that topic since we are not experts -- general advice: specify as little as is necessary (i.e., only free-form note to give as much freedom as possible). "Note" implies a string of text vs. something that can be decoded by programmers.

Niklas: dcterms only includes properties where the range is explicitly a literal so maybe we should stick with that.

Phil: Make `accessibilityNote` a subproperty of `description`?

Karen: `description` has no specified range; `description` is intended to be something like an abstract (which is a subproperty of `description` as well) whereas here we are describing features that do not pertain to the content.

Osma: I agree, does not feel quite right.

Karen: If `requires` was broader it would fit ("what do you need to read this") but `requires` points to another resource rather than a method / device / ... .

Agreed so far (also see https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/79#issuecomment-3576324277):
- aiming for a property with a literal value
- defer the discussion on another property with structured values to a later time
- not a subproperty of description
- still a bit fuzzy on whether we are aiming for dcterms or bibo -- which also determines the final form because of different practices for those two vocabularies -- (but leaning towards dcterms)

__ACTION 2025-11-25__: Osma to get new definition from colleagues.

------

## Agent-related properties and classes
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/88

__APPROVED 2025-11-25__

- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/88#issuecomment-3547840698

We approve the use of terms from FOAF -- `foaf:Organization`, `foaf:Person`, and `foaf:name` -- in SRAP.

#### Notes
Karen: https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/88#issuecomment-3568181598
It is arguably unfortunate that Organization and Person are declared as disjoint. However, the UB did not see this as a show-stopper.

With eight votes in favour, ACCEPTED

------

## Affiliation -- domain of Person or Affiliated Agent?
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/89

STRAWMAN PROPOSAL for discussion (based on discussion on [November 11](https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/minutes/2025-11-11.md)):
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/89#issue-3638534731

`bibo:affiliation`
- range `Organization`
- definition: "An organization with which a person has been affiliated."
- Comment something like: "this is not the person itself but their representation within a particular (bibliographic or similar) context"

Main open issue: Should the domain of `affiliation` be `Person` or `AffiliatedAgent`? 

#### Notes
Niklas: https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/89#issuecomment-3571861041
Proposals A or B, RDF 1.2 may offer more options but that will not come about in time. Should we explicitly say that a described person is the person in a context? Should SRAP say that it must be a blank node? Add recommendation on how to specify affiliation for a person?

Karen: In SRAP a person has a graph specifying additional information. Looking at the model that SRAP defines is a different task than adding different items to vocabularies. Question: Do we add `affiliation` to bibo?

Osma: A simple solution would be that you have a person shape and tell users please do not use identifiers as subjects representing that person but use the correct property to specify those identifiers using, say, `dcterms:identifier`. Explaining this in SRAP documentation could pre-empt the problem.

Niklas: Profile specifies the role that a person has in this context (not the identity of the person themself).

(Karen: By the way, we should also include "email address".)

Osma: This distinction may be clear to cataloguers but the information may be lost when triples are passed on down the line.

Karen: We seem to accept that the domain should be `Person`, and all of this should be addressed in the SRAP documentation. What should the range be? 

Niklas: `Agent`? 

Tom: `Organization`?

Karen: In foaf, besides `Organization` there is also `Group` (both subclasses of `Agent`) which we have not included yet.

Niklas: use `rangeIncludes`? Karen: but we only have that in DC, not in bibo -- which by the way was one of the messages of the SRAP-WG to the UB to start using it in bibo!

Karen: SRAP does not mandate a blank node; DCTAP offers in essence a blank node but you could use a URI there; there is no generalized person in SRAP, only person in context, person graphs (in relation to a document)

Osma: But we agreed to adopt `foaf:Person` which is very much a generalized concept of person.

Karen: I read it as "the thing that we are describing in this context is by the way of type person".

Kalli: Please add the example for "person" in the documentation https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/docs/srap-profile.md#person-shape

__NOTE 2025-11-25__: Add example for "person" to SRAP documentation.

Niklas: we should split this into two issues, one see action below, one extended discussion

__ACTION 2025-11-25__: Karen to post proposal for `bibo:affiliation`.

------

## Schedule More Meetings

We only have one more meeting this year, and likely have to schedule more meetings for next year to get through the issues and decide on the final application profile.

PROPOSAL: Keep current rhythm (every two weeks), continue on January 13th and 27th.

Proposal was accepted.

------

## Next meetings
2025-12-09, 15:00 UTC (last scheduled meeting in 2025)
