# SRAP 2025-10-28 Review minutes

### Attendees
Attended: Argie (chair), Joe, Kalli, Karen, Osma, Tom (scribe) 
Did not attend: Niklas, Nishad, Phil, Sunny 

## General Points

### Brief presentation round
- new member! Kalli Mathios

### Approved minutes of previous call
- https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/minutes/2025-09-30.md

### Introduced the process document (Tom)
- https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/process.md

## Issues to discuss

### BIBO properties for SRAP ("In progress")
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/74

Tom: This one is easy. We simply approve of using BIBO properties and classes.

Argie: This issue is straightforward. Please review this by the next call and cast your vote.

### Add :url to BIBO ("In progress")
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/78

Osma: Karen suggested this be broader than URL.

Karen: There is URL, IRI; some might assume that URL is more specific. If you talk about a handle, it is like a URL, or ARK. Hoping to find something that indicates it is any kind of direct link. Also wonder: there are many archives that point to contact phone number, etc.

Osma: But good to keep this narrowly focused on [Web link].

Argie: What isn't covered by link?

Karen: Calling it "link" may be more future-proof.

Osma: After this clarification, fine with link. Phone call application works in browser btw.

Osma: "accessLink": "A link that gives access to the scholarly resource, for example the URL of a landing page."

Kalli: Good to specify "location".

Karen: "A link that provides the access or download location for the scholarly resource."

Karen: "A link that provides the download location or access point for the scholarly resource."

Osma withdraws proposal.

Tom puts Karen's proposal up for final vote.

### Add :funder and :funding to BIBO ("In progress")
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/77

Karen: "funding" is a gerund form, which is ambiguous.

Osma: "Funding source"? Niklas proposed in the Turtle snippet. His idea was to call it bibo:FundingSource, which I like.

Karen: Agree. What will we call the property?

Joe: "Funder"

Osma: Would not use it elsewhere. How about "fundedVia".

Argie: Why should properties be nouns?

Karen: Do not like names with "hasX" (or "isX").

Osma: BIBO not consistent; sometimes underscores, sometimes camelcase.

Karen: Class "Funding"; property "fundingSource"; property "funder"?

ACTION: Osma to propose definitions for "Funding", "fundingSource", "funder". (DONE)

### Add :accessibilityStatement either to BIBO or DCTerms
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/79

Osma: As in W3C Web accessibility, eg "screen reader". Not in terms of availability. Thought of "accessibility summary". Can align with MARC, 532 subfield a. Antoine linked. Summary that does not go into detail.

Karen: "resourceAccessibility"? There is a Rights statement already that uses dct:RightsStatement.

Osma: One requirement under EU accessibility directive is that you must record - so must be represented in metadata. Overheard discussion a few days ago: repository system here: put string like "not accessible". Moving forward, must ensure they are accessible.

Kalli: Nice example in MARC documentation.

Osma: MARC uses indicators. To do properly, would need three properties. Schema.org has accessibilitySummary.

Kalli: How about "note" - can go either way.

Osma: Schema.org and MARC have definitions.

Kalli: IFLA accessibility group - has text we could use.
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IrGR0vQeKIfEhltJj4TSvy4-1DNSncH6pfH87sXrEY8/edit?tab=t.0

Osma: Both IFLA and W3C use the phrase "person with disabilities".

ACTION: Kalli and Karen to find wordings; everyone to comment.

Karen: In US, there is Disability Act. Is there an EU equivalent.

Osma: Yes, European Disability Act https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Accessibility_Act

Next: Date properties #80 and #81. Grant class (https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/72) may no longer be needed?

## Next meetings
2025-11-11, 15:00 UTC  
2025-11-25, 15:00 UTC  
2025-12-09, 15:00 UTC (last scheduled meeting in 2025)
