# SRAP 2026-02-10 Review minutes

### Attendees
- Attended: Argie (chair), Joe, Kalli, Niklas (scribe), Osma, Phil, Tom
- Did not attend: Antoine, Karen, Nishad, Sunny

> [!NOTE]
> Please comment on the issues at the latest 16 hours before the call, to allow for time zone differences between participants.

------

## Minutes of previous call

- https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/minutes/2026-01-27.md
- no objections; approved.

------

### DCTERMS accessibilityNote
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/79

ACTION 2026-01-27: Everyone to point members of relevant communities to the news item / GitHub issue:
- https://www.dublincore.org/news/2026/01-21_accessibility-note-comment/ (comment period runs out 2026-02-22, and we have a meeting two days later)
- https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/133
To avoid overlap and monitor actions, list your contacts on this spreadsheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oOMwy2Ms1ed77FDG67MO7FP9Pu2IfgUov8fW-hAKAm0/edit?gid=0#gid=0

ACTION 2026-01-27: Kalli to thank people for posting or writing (acknowledging).

- Argie: [summarized status of above]
- Tom: talked to Liddy Nevile about the history of this (what happened in schema.org work, and further with ISO MLR work). Let me know if you want a Zoom call with these representatives. Also see spreadsheet linked above to see who talked to whom.

------

### Add :projectID to BIBO
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/83
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/83#issuecomment-3806240572 - strawperson proposal

Discussion on January 27 focused on desirability of interoperability with Rioxx. Term is more a relationship between a work and a project than an identifier in the stricter sense.

- Argie: Issue 83 has a strawperson proposal by Osma per his action from last meeting, has anyone had time to look at this?
- Osma: I thought about leaving the domain open but thought about adding it to BIBO.
- Argie: We have a bulk issue to talk about domains and ranges for additions to BIBO after all additions have been decided.
- Osma: there are also alternative names.
- Niklas: keep domain as suggestion (to be finalized when we add it to BIBO).
- Argie: And use just `project`? [nodding]

Result: Strawperson proposal APPROVED. Domain and range can be finalized within https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/91.

------

### BIBO :scholarlyUnit -- or "associated organization"?
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/82

On January 27, we were looking for a concept more general than "scholarly" and "unit" -- something like "associated" and "organization".

- Osma: I think this is separate from e.g. affiliation, contribution, etc. This is about "where this happened / where the thesis was made"; which is commonly recorded.
- Kalli: Why is this separate from the institution.
- Osma: the idea is to point to the most specific unit within the organization (which ideally is findable from this detailed reference).
- Osma: I kind of like `associatedOrganization`, although it's maybe too vague.
- Argie: What is the primary purpose of this piece of information?
- Osma: E.g. a university wants to collect statistics about which departments were associated with which papers.
- Phil: Karen suggested `organizationalUnit`?
- Argie + Phil: not necessarily research, and a bit wider than scholarly.
- Joseph: Is this expected to be used in broader cases?
- Phil: If we add it to BIBO, it needs to be a bit wider.
- Osma: There are many different specific uses, which varies and may open such can of worms.
- Argie: "z" or "s"?
- Phil: Even in British English, "â€”ize" is fine (It's the "Oxford spelling" rather than "Cambridge spelling").
- Osma: I don't mind `bibo:organizationalUnit`.
- Niklas: Me neither.
- [Argie added new strawperson proposal for `bibo:organizationalUnit`.]
- Tom: with the provision of strong objections, I think we can declare victory on that proposal.

(Tentative) result (lazy consensus awaiting the next call in case there is strong opposition from non-attendees): name APPROVED

**ACTION** for Osma 2026-02-10: propose definition of `bibo:organizationalUnit` -- done, see https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/82#issuecomment-3879225993, please vote

------

### BIBO "Contribution" class

- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/94 Contribution class, which is related to:
  - https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/89 Person or Affiliated Author
  - https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/90 bibo:affiliation
  - https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/84 bibo:role

Discussion on January 27 started with a model of Resource, Person, and Contribution, with relationships person-to-resource, person-to-contribution, resource-to-contribution -- see new issue [on Contribution class](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/94).

ACTION 2026-01-27: Karen to model in DCTAP, simplified -- started, see https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/94#issuecomment-3869041749

ACTION 2026-01-27: UB chairs try to collapse multiple issues into the one now created by Osma (including diagram): https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/94

- Phil: I am happy with the suggested simplifications of these diagrams.
- Osma: I think having a separate shape for personContribution and organizationContribution isn't necessary. 
- Niklas: agree.
- Tom: Do we agree that this is what we should do, and the question now is about how?
- Kalli: When you pull this data into a system, don't we want to distinguish between person and organization contributions?
- Osma: the contribution is always attached to either a Person or an Organization, so that information is present.
- Niklas: do we want to call the relation just "contribution" if it goes from an agent to the bibliographic resource?
- Osma: I'm not sure which way the direction should go
- Phil: my thinking was that this is optional, so if you add it, it falls out more naturally to draw it that way
- [... discussion on diagrams, turtle and shape examples.]
- Tom: Is it Ok for the SRAP profile to use blank nodes for these patterns?
- Osma: Some of the repository people here responded to the current status of SRAP that they are attached to the flat modelling. But then this particular modelling of grouped associations simply cannot be done in a flat model.
- Niklas: With flat models, people come up with "creative" solutions for grouping. If there is no grouping mechanism without shoehorning. Prefer to make sound design for grouping. Not a design that pretends to be flat but isn't. In SRAP proposal, we already have bnodes, e.g. for grant. Agree that contribution model, bnodes, lend themselves to expressing grouping. I am "too" comfortable with such designs, I admit.
- Osma: To move forward, we need something a bit more concrete as a proposal; with the missing relationships and classes.
- Argie: How so we consolidate the current proposal (and how does it obsolete the previous ones)?
- Phil: Some SHACL validators don't like circular graphs.
- Argie: The tendency of the meeting participants is to not use separate shapes for person and organization contributions.
- Tom: Noted the older advice to use DC elements 1.1 for string literals; and to move away from that advice.
- [more examples, diagrams given in https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/94]
- [summary of open questions after today's discussion and some consensus: https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/94#issuecomment-3878878482]
- [strawperson proposal trying to distill the consensus by Osma: https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/94#issuecomment-3878940156]

ACTION 2026-02-10: Kalli to summarize the discussion up until now into a new proposal to vote on.

------

### BIBO

brief outline of BIBO-related proposal (Tom)
https://github.com/dcmi/bibo/issues/8
discussion --> BIBO call (2026-02-17)

- Tom: Next Tuesday we're having a focused BIBO meeting which you're all very welcome to attend. It is orthogonal to SRAP, and is done in preparation for adding new terms (classes and/or properties) to BIBO. The focus is to clean things up and modernize the BIBO namespace document (and management thereof).
- Osma: I cannot attend next week, but a list of open questions would be great, so I can add feedback if possible.
- Tom: looking at the proposal, the main ones are 1) the main message about what we intend to do, and 2) what should not be moved forward to BIBO 2.0.

<!---
# #### Review of already-approved BIBO terms for completeness
# 
# Please vote on the completeness of term descriptions for new BIBO terms.
# 
# - https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/91 -- Review descriptions of approved BIBO terms for completeness

#### Reminder: Special Usage Board call about BIBO namespace

2026-02-17, 15:00 UTC, with separate agenda and minutes

Topic: Should we add new BIBO terms to the existing ontology document or create a new BIBO namespace document? See discussion in 
- https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/132 - Describing properties and classes in BIBO
- https://github.com/dcmi/bibo/issues/3 - BIBO namespace document
- https://github.com/dcmi/bibo/issues/4 - BIBO use of `rdfs:isDefinedBy`
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/93 - What does it mean to add something to BIBO?

ACTION 2026-01-27: UB chairs to take Karen's comments into account in agenda of BIBO meeting.
-->

------

## Next meetings of SRAP review

2026-02-24, 15:00 UTC

### Links

- Project board: https://github.com/orgs/dcmi/projects/4/views/1
- Process: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/process.md
- Decisions: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/decisions.md
