# SRAP 2026-01-27 Review minutes

### Attendees
Attended: Antoine (first 30min), Argie (chair), Joe, Kalli, Karen, Niklas, Nishad (first 30min), Osma, Phil, Tom (scribe) 
Did not attend: Sunny

------

### DCTERMS accessibilityNote

- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/79

There is a news item on dublincore.org inviting members of the public to comment on the proposed new term by 22 February:
https://www.dublincore.org/news/2026/01-21_accessibility-note-comment/

Antoine: Question about formal process of comments by UB, see https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/79#issuecomment-3805508421 ?

Tom: We already have two issues -- one on 'dc-srap' repo, one on the 'usage' repo.

Osma: A bit unfortunate that we are posting the result of our discussion without more context. Might have anticipated some of the points raised by HughP.

Argie: HughP also posted on 'dc-srap' issue.

Niklas: 'dc-srap' issue is asking for simple proposal and proposing that it be in DC Terms -- the SRAP angle. That does not go into structured terms. We could expect "why not things like ePubs and Schema.org"? Just mentioning the can of worms opens it.

Osma: Good idea to acknowledge. I could reply.

Antoine: Good idea to wait.

Tom: That is what Kalli's acknowledgement does. Better to wait.

Phil: When this is added to DC Terms, what we have in the proposal is what will be added, so must in fact make sense without extra context.

Antoine: For definition and label, okay. But examples might be added. Good to have examples.

Niklas: Agree to wait and yes, examples. 

All: We will let this issue rest for now until the 30-day period of public comment is over.

ACTION 2026-01-27: Everyone to point members of relevant communities to the news item / GitHub issue:
- https://www.dublincore.org/news/2026/01-21_accessibility-note-comment/
- https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/133

To avoid overlap and monitor actions, list your contacts on this spreadsheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1oOMwy2Ms1ed77FDG67MO7FP9Pu2IfgUov8fW-hAKAm0/edit?gid=0#gid=0

ACTION 2026-01-27: Kalli to thank people for posting or writing (acknowledging).

------

### Add :projectID to DCTerms or BIBO
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/83

Argie: New issue. Antoine has commented.

Antoine: Question motivation. Project IDs are not meaningless, but there are many other specific types of identifier.

Karen: There is a specific standard ID.

Osma: Might have come from Rioxx. About the relationship between this research output and a specific project. Came into discussion re: Rioxx profile. Rioxx record: should be possible to translate into SRAP. Used as set of requirements. Link to project is a Rioxx field. Can be local handle or RAID https://raid.org/ handle.

Niklas: Agree w/Antoine re: not using dc:identifier for everything. Blank node with dc:identifier?

Antoine: Now I understand it is relationship between work and project x, so not a subproperty of dc:identifier. If not subprop, becomes a bit clearer.

Phil: Question: Is this a link to a description of a project or a projectID flattened into the description of the scholarly resource?

Osma: Not subproperty because it really is a relationship. Call it project or project link. BIBO may be more appropriate.

Karen: Are we assuming this ID would link to addtional info? Could also see having project be a node in SRAP, so if want to say more. RAID identifier, names, session - beyond scope we foresaw.

Phil: Suggest dct:relation .

Niklas: Subproperty of dct:relation?

Karen: dct:relation is about a "related resource".

Niklas: rdfs:seeAlso is also a way to point.

Argie: What was the original intent of the SRAP WG?

Karen: Project ID.

Osma: Rioxx provides something like an RDF property but in XML schema so not deeply connected with other terms. Quite useful to link project to other outputs. Here: from output to project. Pasted Rioxx definition into issue. "Must contain one project ID".

Argie: Moving on.

------

### Add :scholarlyUnit to BIBO
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/82

Argie: Karen questioned "unit" and "scholarly".

Osma: We had long discussions in WG. Coming from institutional repository world, common theme: "connected to institution but institution not directly the publisher" -- what to call this rel'ship? In WG, settled on Scholarly Unit. See example at https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/82#issuecomment-3805704812 

[Discussion about institution granting degree and meaning thereof.]

Osma: But could be a technical report. Unofficial seminar report. Instruction manual. Gist of property: "this resource made under this umbrella". This is about document itself. Edge cases, grey literature.

Karen: Dislike "scholarly". Tech report may not be very "scholarly". Are we limiting SRAP to things produced in higher ed? Research happens in institutions not educational.

Phil: If goes into BIBO: "as broad as BIBO", not "as narrow as SRAP".

Argie: since we are questioning both concepts... Is this just about words?

Niklas: From BIBO perspective: specific things from biblio context. "Court associated with legal document." Strive for consistently specific.

Phil: Produce reports for commercial companies -- which would not regard themselves as institutions, but do produce a lot of sci lit. "Related organization"? Rather than "institution".

Argie: Have "organ'n". Orgnl context. Further discussion in the issue...

Niklas suggested bibo:associatedOrganization

Argie: Moving on.

------

### Describing an author as an agent -- or with an "agent profile"?

- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/89 Person or Affiliated Author
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/90 bibo:affiliation
- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/84 bibo:role

As of December, we are leaning against describing authors simply with nodes of type `foaf:Person` because affiliations and roles can be mixed from different contexts when aggregated together. However, we also think that SRAP should be straightforward to use by metadata creators. Instead of `Agent` we are considering something like `AgentProfile`.

Note of chair (Argie): Last time (https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/minutes/2026-01-13.md) Phil started outlining some kind of "triangular model" but we were interrupted by the bell. Take up discussion from there?

Please review the three related issues (above) to decide how to balance ease of use against ease of aggregation.

Osma: Triangle seemed promising. Link from resource to organization.

Phil: Resource. Person. Contribution. Person-to-resource. Person-to-contrib. Resource-to-contrib.

Niklas: FWIW, I jotted down this when Phil talked about the triangle:

```
<scholarly_resource>
  dct:creator <some-person> .
<some-person>
  a foaf:Person ;
  foaf:name "Some Person" ;
  dct:identifier "a93ca903-a1d3-4943-ae8b-aa9c93e0b17c" ;
  foaf:made [ a bibo:DocumentPart ;
      bibo:role cr:data-curation ;
      bibo:affiliation <linked_org> ;
      dct:isPartOf <scholarly_resource> ] ;
  bibo:affiliation <linked_org> .
```

Niklas: Way to show linkages from various angles.

Phil: When contribution made in preparation? Data analysis? Data collection? Someone posted contributions vocabulary. https://credit.niso.org/ 

Osma shows diagram. Push extra info outside Person object, make separate thing, "Contribution".

Phil: How to get from person to affiliation.

Osma: In this case, not worry about making universal assertions -- related to "Contrib" object. We would need a new class in BIBO, Contribution.

Niklas: Not sure about foaf:made.

Argie: So proposal is about new contribution class.

Osma: Is this the preferred solution? If yes then new issue about Contrib class.

Kalli: Comparing to BF. bf:contribution has: agent, role, their contribution. Person sit outside?

Niklas: contributor-of as inverse of agent. So if you want to add details, put on person. Burden of details pushed further down in tree. With proper examples and docn, explain how puts emphasis on different thing while having same granularity.

Niklas in chat:
```
prefix dct: <http://purl.org/dc/terms/>
prefix foaf: <http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/>
prefix bibo: <http://purl.org/ontology/bibo/>
prefix cr: <https://credit.niso.org/contributor-roles/>
<scholarly_resource>
  dct:creator <some-person> .
<some-person>
  a foaf:Person ;
  foaf:name "Some Person" ;
  dct:identifier "a93ca903-a1d3-4943-ae8b-aa9c93e0b17c" ;
  bibo:contributorOf [ a bibo:Contribution ;
      bibo:role cr:data-curation ;
      bibo:affiliation <linked_org> ;
      bibo:contributionTo <scholarly_resource> ] .
```

Karen: DCTAP of SRAP. This means we would have shape for person and shape for contribution.

Osma: Yes, would be a new shape. We would move something things from Person shape. Couldn't agree on direction of arrow between person and contribution. Personally: from C to P is clearer. Person could be a VIAF ID. Created a new issue: https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/94

Phil: N said: "This approach has simplicity of contribution to name and drops complexity down" so Resource to Contribution to Person.

Karen: Code, diagram, DCTAP.

Argie:  Code (Niklas, Turtle), diagram (Osma), DCTAP (Karen).

Tom: Are we comfortable going to more differentiated model?

Phil: Asked at start of discussion on this issue whether we were over-thinking. Anyone aggregating data from different sources will have to cope with issues such as a person having had multiple affiliations at different times.

Niklas: Simple things require removing details. Maybe get away with flattening, but still have to qualify and people consuming have to stitch together. If model properly, more granualar.

Karen: We do not have well-expressed use cases for SRAP. Would help us decide. Already less flat than DC. Had assumed as DC AP.

Kalli: Resources will have different contributors and roles. Inherently complex. Without knowing, especially in institutional context -- agree more with Niklas, if you do not do in model, will still be an issue.

Joe: Because this is AP -- completed agree with K re: use cases -- but complex scenarios, as Kalli said.

Niklas: Make affordances for simplicity foremost. Capture details for use cases that need them.

Argie: Group seems to want to see that model. 

ACTION: Karen to model in DCTAP, simplified.

ACTION: UB chairs try to collapse multiple issues into the one now created by Osma (including diagram): https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/94

------

### BIBO

#### Review of already-approved BIBO terms for completeness

Please vote on the completeness of term descriptions for new BIBO terms.

- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/91 -- Review descriptions of approved BIBO terms for completeness

#### Reminder: Special Usage Board call about BIBO namespace

2026-02-17, 15:00 UTC, with separate agenda and minutes

Topic: Should we add new BIBO terms to the existing ontology document or create a new BIBO namespace document? See discussion in 
- https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/132 -- Describing properties and classes in BIBO
- https://github.com/dcmi/bibo/issues/3 -- BIBO namespace document
- https://github.com/dcmi/bibo/issues/4 -- BIBO use of `rdfs:isDefinedBy`

Karen created issue about what it means to add anything new to BIBO -- see https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/93 BIBO is like a profile because it uses other vocabularies.

ACTION: UB chairs to take Karen's comments into account in agenda of BIBO meeting.

------

## Next meetings of SRAP review

2026-02-10, 15:00 UTC
2026-02-24, 15:00 UTC

### Links

- Project board: https://github.com/orgs/dcmi/projects/4/views/1
- Process: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/process.md
- Decisions: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/reviews/srap/decisions.md
