---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2006/2006-03-30.ub-telecon-agenda.html"
---

<pre>
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Wed, 29 Mar 2006 12:49:57 +0200
From: Thomas Baker &lt;tbaker@tbaker.de&gt;
To: DCMI Usage Board &lt;dc-usage@jiscmail.ac.uk&gt;
Subject: [DC-USAGE] Telecon Thu 2006-03-30

Dear all,

We have a telecon scheduled for tomorrow afternoon.
The telecon agenda will be to discuss the agenda for the
Seattle meeting (I want to circulate a PDF packet by Thursday,
6 April).

I am still working on this (sorry) and will circulate shortly
before the call. During the call, I will want to make sure
we have slots for all current issues, an estimate of how much
time is needed for each, and we should set overall priorities.

Note that Central Europe is on Summer Time, so Berlin is
one hour later than usual (16:00) and UK is 15:00. I have
double-checked the times for Tokyo, Seattle, and East Coast
and believe they they are 23:00, 06:00, and 9:00 respectively.
If anyone knows otherwise, please post...!

Tom

              Usage Board telecon 
              2006-03-30 Thu 1400 UTC (1600 Berlin, 0600 Seattle, 2300 Tokyo)

              See dialing instructions below
              For IRC, type "/join #UB" on the chat line at:
              -- <a href="irc://irc.ukoln.ac.uk/">irc://irc.ukoln.ac.uk/</a> or
              -- <a href="http://dev.ukoln.ac.uk/irc">http://dev.ukoln.ac.uk/irc</a>

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Dialing instructions
    1) Dial: local country number (<a href="http://www.sprintbiz.com/intlaudio">http://www.sprintbiz.com/intlaudio</a>)
       -- Germany 0800-181-2311
       -- UK 0800-032-0634
       -- Japan 00531-13-0842 "KDD Only"
       -- US 888-448-7101
       -- US 888-448-7101
    2) Outside the US, you hear: "Welcome... Please enter your 10-digit..."
       Type: 888-448-7101#
    3) You hear: "Please enter..."
       Type: 764-6081#
----------------------------------------------------------------------
IRC: Note that port 6667 needs to be open between your client and
     the server. Your firewall may need to be opened slightly and/or
     port-blocking settings in your virus/security tool may need to be
     changed. You can always re-set your nickname with "/nick YourName".

-- 
Dr. Thomas Baker tbaker@tbaker.de
Director, Specifications and Documentation
Dublin Core Metadata Initiative

</pre>
