---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2004/2004-10-18.meeting-excerpts.html"
---

<pre>
DC Usage Board Meeting in Shanghai - summary

Abstract Model

* For each of the currently recommended encoding schemes
    we need to determine if it is a syntax encoding scheme or
    a vocabulary encoding scheme.

* Agreed to consider re-wording the definitions
    of current elements to make them more consistent with the
    abstract model.

Versioning of DCMI 'term descriptions'

* Agreed to continue the current practice of treating
    the DCMI description of a DCMI term as a discrete
    'bundle of attributes' that is assigned a new URI each
    time anything in that 'bundle' is updated.

Attributes for describing DCMI Terms ("UB application profile")

* Agreed that we need to

    o EITHER re-use existing OWL/RDFS terms and create new
        UB-specific terms (in UB namespaces - 'UB terms', 'UB term
        types', 'UB encoding scheme types' and 'UB status types')
        to describe all DCMI terms

    o OR liaise with ISO11179 about re-using their terms
        (which requires them assigning URIRefs for those terms and
        have an underlying RDF model).

MARC Relator Terms

* Approved set of circa 100 MARC Relator terms as
    sub-properties of dc:contributor. Model: Library of 
    Congress asserts the sub-property relationship and
    Usage Board endorses those assertions.

* DCMI needs an RDF-based mechanism for recording UB's
    endorsement of each LoC assertion.

* Need to consider future possibilities for giving a
    status of 'Conforming' to terms in external namespaces.

Element Refinement document

* Agreed to publish Pete's explanation of element refinement 
    as a 'recommended resource'.

Element proposal: Accessibility

* Approved "Accessibility" as Recommended element.

* Definition: A description of the
    qualities of the resource in terms of control, display
    and content that can be used to match the needs and
    preferences of a user.

Term proposals: Collection Description

* Approved the following as "conforming" elements:

    accrualMethod
    accrualPeriodicity
    accrualPolicy

* Unable to approve or reject proposals for 3 DC-CD
    controlled vocabularies. Defer decision, pending clarification
    about the ongoing maintenance of the vocabularies. Suggest
    that WG consider possible options for future maintenance.
    Seek clarification from the Board of Trustees about the role
    of DCMI (and the DC UB) in the maintenance of controlled
    vocabularies.

Term proposal: Education 

* Approved conforming element Instructional Method:
    'A process, used to engender knowledge, attitudes and
    skills, that the resource is designed to support'.

Future term proposal: NLM

* Agreed we will, in principle, accept a proposal for
    'NLM' as a vocabulary encoding scheme with a DCTERMS URI

* Expectation that this will be the last proposal to
    assign a DCMI URI to an external vocabulary.

* Need to develop a policy, process, mechanism and
    documentation for endorsing non-DCMI encoding scheme URIs
    (same endorsement mechanism as for endorsing non-DCMI
    properties) and develop guidelines to help external
    organisations/people declare URIs for non-DCMI vocabulary
    encoding schemes (to note that preference is for owners
    to declare URIs for their own vocabularies). Note impact
    on status of 'Registered' in current UB Process document.

* Need to flag existing encoding scheme documentation
    on the DCMI Web site (and the registration tool) as 
    obsolete.

ISO 8601

* Agreed to register a new syntax encoding scheme called
    'dcterms:ISO8601Basic' and add comment indicating that some
    value strings that conform to ISO8601Basic will not be valid
    value strings for dc:date (e.g. '15.30').

* Further discussion at Shanghai conference (e.g., Date
    Working Group) suggests that this should be subject to 
    careful review before the decision is finalized.

Type vocabulary definitions and comments

* Need to tidy up editorial inconsistencies and send
    to dc-usage list for signing off.

Definition of dc:date

* Proposed re-definition: 'A date (or date and time),
    including a range, of an event in the lifecycle of the
    resource'. Suggest this to the DC Date WG as a new definition
    of dc:date and ask for their comments.

* Subsequent discussion in Shanghai has raised the possibility
    that the problem with the definition could be handled with
    a comment.

Review of application profiles

* Need to ask the Board of Trustees to clarify the
    commitment and mechanism that DCMI has for maintaining the
    application profiles that are developed by DC WGs.

Preservation policy for DCMI documentation

* Agreed that the PDF version of the meeting packet is
    sufficient for preservation purposes.

DCX Proposal

* DCMI does not host experimental or short term
    namespaces.
    
What is Simple Dublin Core?

* Some discussion about what 'simple DC' means but no
    real consensus reached.  

AskDCMI and FAQ

* Some discussion about 'issues' and updates to the
    AskDCMI system, but no decisions made due to lack of time.

</pre>
