DCMI Usage Board - Telecon #68 - Wed - 2020-07-22 - minutes

These minutes: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/minutes/2020/2020-07-22.dcub-telecon-minutes.md

Attended: Tom, Karen, Grace, Stefanie, Antoine, Phil, Joe.

__Tom__: Grace and Karen do you want to take the lead
since you were working on these last night? 

__Karen__: It didn't take us long to do it because it was
pretty obvious, so maybe we should just go through them
one at a time. I thought it might be a good idea to add
the definition for the ones that we selected so people
don't have to keep popping around but I didn't get around
to it.

__Tom__: Are you generally thinking that we take this
document and add definitions and then use it as point of
reference for the mappings?

__Karen__: I hadn't really thought that far, but big
question is whether we include things like narrow and
broad terms. Gut feeling is that makes it much harder to
maintain.

__Tom__: That raises expectation in users.

__Karen__: Yes, the assumption that we "got it all".
Grace and I did not go through to make sure we had all of
the broad and narrow terms so we can't assume those terms
are complete.

__Tom__: Start with contributor. The way it is defined in
Schema is as soemone who makes a "secondary
contribution". This is how it was defined in the original
Dublin Core 1.0, but early on, that changed so that
Contributor was defined as being broader than Creator.
Changed to: anyone that contributes is a contributor.
Even creator is a contributor, so dc:creator was made
into a subproperty of dc:contributor. So technically,
schema:contributor is narrower than dcterms:contributor.

__Stefanie__: Yes it is semantically narrower.

__Karen__: Seems to me that going from narrower to
broader is less damaging than going from a broader to a
narrower in terms of the semantics and I'm not sure what
other choice one would have with Schema.org contributor.

__Stefanie__: When you are using dcterms:contributor and
you have to map to Schema.org, then in most cases what
you can be sure of is that what you get in dcterms is a
contributor and not a creator. But it may be that what
you get in the dcterms:contributor is a creator and then
schema. org contributor doesn't fit anymore. That's the
problem we have when mapping from one to another.

__Karen__: But given that dcterms:creator does exist..

__Stefanie__: Most of the time you will get the creator
in dcterms:creator and all the others in
dcterms:contributor.

__Karen__: This is the best guess, assuming that you have
dcterms:contributor. I can't see what else you could go to
for schema.

__Stefanie__: Not sure I would call it an equivalent.

__Karen__: We didn't change the EQ and everything so
that's still open. In the document it still had EQ MT and
BT and we didn't change those so we could call that
something else.

__Tom__: When you say "in the document", this is the
merging of Graces mappings and the task force mappings?

__Karen__: No what im saying is the Markdown document
that we started with. All we did was pick one to be the
one to one. We didn't change if it said equal or
narrower. If we want to make it close match we can. I'm
not sure it really makes a difference.

__Joe__: Under DC terms contributor at the top of our
list, our narrower term would be dcterms:creator.

__Tom__: Worth spending more time on this first one
because it will be easier to make these same types of
decisions later on. I do agree that schema:contributor is
the closest thing to dc:contributor, but if we think it
is narrower we can say narrow match or something like
that. We don't have super property like we do for RDF. We
would say Schema.org rdfs:subPropertyOf
dcterms:contributor OR dcterms:contributor
skos:narrowMatch schema:contributor. If they aren't
really equivalent, should not mark as such.

__Karen__: What difference does it make what we call it?
We are giving people mappings, whether the mappings is
perfect or not might be something we want to explain in
an annotation of sorts. It either maps or it doesn't map.
I can't imagine saying that it's narrower changes the
mapping. Maybe what we need to do is think about what
we're trying to accomplish there.

__Antoine__: What about trying to do both? We could
register the formal subproperty link that somehow
expresses the fact that we believe that, in theory,
Schema.org contributor is narrower than DC. We could also
use skos:closeMatch, which says two properties are
interchangable in some context. We can explain the
context.

__Stefanie__: I also like skos:closeMatch.

__Karen__: My gut feeling is that there aren't any
perfect matches.

__Stefanie__: Agree.

__Tom__: Very few right.

__Stefanie__: There are sometimes perfect matches but
whether they are perfect or not depends on the data you
get. You get data where you know that there is
dcterms:creator and dcterms:contributor and in
contributor you will only get what Schema.org defines as
contributor. I can see that in my data and decide it's a
perfect match, but I can also get data where in
contributor I will get the creators and I look at the
data and I see oh it's not a perfect match.

__Phil__: I'd like to go a bit further than that if all
you've got is something that is marked as
dcterms:contributor than knowing that
editor/illustrator/participant narrower matches is no use
to you whatsoever because you don't know what data to map
it to. The narrower matches are only relevent if mapping
from Schema to DC.

__Karen__: I'm assuming that these narrower/broader ones
will be gone. We left them here because our exercise was
to select one, but I don't think we're going to try to
define broader and narrower.

__Tom__: Agree with that as well as using close match for
the reason Antoine was explaining. EQ means close match
and this is as close as we can get and we delete the
other ones. I can go ahead and do that.

__Karen__: What I don't like about equal or exact match
is that between different vocabularies these are always
in different contexts. Like Schema.org contributor is
going to be subclassed for something that
dcterms:contributor is not. I think that we could say
"use for". I don't think we ever really have an
equivalence.

__Antoine__: Could we use the subproperty link?
Continuing off of what Karan says, if we have a close
match then the subproperty link would be an extra []. Why
is it not an exact match? We know that formally if we
look at detail one is more general than the other.

__Tom__: Yes, I like that approach, because we're being
both more precise and appropriately vague because
skos:closeMatch is more vague while rdfs:subPropertyOf is
more precise.

__Karen__: So you would say that--which one is a
subproperty of the other one? 

__Tom__: Schema.org is a subproperty of
dcterms:contributor.

__Karen__: That defines a formal relationship between
them again that i'm not comfortable with. We can say it
in words but to actually making it a subproperty? 

__Phil__: I think you ought to make assumptions about how
Schema.org is going to develop, because it's possible
that those narrower terms, that I think you've now
deleted, could be declared in Schema.org as subproperties
of contributor in which case i think--

__Stefanie__: Shouldn't that be the work of Schema.org
and not Dublin Core? 

__Phil__: Oh yeah, I'm not suggesting that we do it. What
I'm saying is that in Schema.org they are declaring some
properties to be subproperties of others on an ongoing
basis. So it is possible that at sometime in the future
that they will make these declarations.

__Stefanie__: I don't think we should make this our
mapping. We shouldn't use subproperty.

__Phil__: No.

__Antoine__: At least not for all of the possible, like
the real subproperties, so the ones that might be farther
away.

__Stefanie__: I like what Karen said: that we should use
something like "use": dcterms:contributor => use
Schema.org contributor. And I think this is something
that people who use the mapping understand. Most of them
won't know what we mean by subproperty. They may
understand close match but they will understand if we use
"use".

__Tom__: I like that.

__Phil__: Is that use from SKOS?

__Antoine__: That would be my reluctance.

__Phil__: Because that doesn't mean that does it. That
means: don't use dcterms:contributor, use Schema.org
contributor. That's my understanding of the semantics.

__Antoine__: That's not even SKOS because SKOS departed
from this old thesarus model, so it's truly ISO 2788.

__Tom__: Other thoughts on this? Should we move on and
then take a few more examples and then come back to this?
Would be good to decide, preferably by end of this call,
what the story is about the mappings, what we're actually
saying when we assert skos:closeMatch. Let's take next
one: dcterms:coverage. One of most problematic terms in
DC. Originally defined very broadly. For iso standard we
decided to discourage people from using coverage and
encourage people to use temporal or spacial coverage. So
dcterms:coverage is problematic; unlikely that were going
to find EQ.

__Stefanie__: The problem we have here is that
schema:location is broader than dc:coverage: content
location is narrower than dcterms:coverage.

__Karen__: No, I think schema:location is narrower also.

__Stefanie__: No.

__Phil__: I think they're just different.

__Stefanie__: They are.

__Karen__: Whereas coverage is either the location or the
epic or the time period.

__Antoine__: May I point out the complexity of the
Europeana mapping to Schema.org. We have taken
dc:coverage and we map it to the schema term for coverage
when the value is a string but is also an ISO date or
when the value is a time stamp with a begin date or end
date - and that's for temporal coverage. And we map it to
spatial coverage when we discover it is a place. And we
map to scheam:about in all other cases.

__Stefanie__: Yes, but the problem is if you read the
definition of coverage then it's "the spatial or temporal
topic of the resource", so it's the content of the
resource that we are talking about when we're talking
about coverage--whether it's spatial or temporal. As for
spatial applicability of the resource: I think this is
something like: I have a newspaper and I can have a look
at where this newspaper was read and where it is possible
to read and your distinction as to where this resource is
relevent sounds to me like something that has to do with
legal issues like law or something like that. So there
are three totally different things we talked about.

__Tom__: This is a very well known problem, one of the
legacy problems of Dublin Core is this definition which
is all over the map. That's why, as you can see on the
screen, the term page directs you to use the more
specific temporal or spacial coverage.

__Stefanie__: The problem is this definition is the same
with both temporal and spatial as far as i know.

__Karen__: Maybe we shouldn't include coverage and
include the three narrower ones. But we said we'd do the
DC15, and Grace and I did that, but maybe we shouldn't
include coverage.

__Phil__: Yes, I think that's a good approach: there are
lots of matches in Schema.org for coverage but there is
no close match.

__Karen__: I couldn't find anything in Schema.org that
would have been sort of time period.

__Tom__: Here we have Schema.org temporal and spatial
coverage.

__Phil__: And you can use it then for things like ebooks.

__Antoine__: Yes, so that's what we do, when I said we'd
map it to temporal or spatial coverage it is the
Schema.org properties.

__Stefanie__: So we use dcterms:temporal/spatial coverage
instead of dcterms:coverage.

__Antoine__: The only vague sort of close correspondance
in terms of Schema.org would be about, but that would be
violating what we have on DC because we don't really
state a relationship between dc:subject and dc:coverage
even though dc:coverage says that it's the topic.

__Stefanie__: Yes, but this is only the first part of the
definition.

__Antoine__: But in the end, the first part of this
definition makes schema:about the only thing that is
roughly at the same level 

__Stefanie__: But the spatial applicability and [].

__Tom__: So we have decided not to map to coverage and to
map instead to spatial and temporal coverage.

__Stefanie__: We don't use dcterms:coverage at all. We
only use dcterms:spatial and temporal.

__Antoine__: And that would be an ISO 2788 "use":
dcterms:coverage => use temporal and spacial coverage.

__Joe__: What happened to the jurisdictional aspect of
all of this? Did it just disappear?

__Stefanie__: Yes, for the moment, as long as we don't
use coverage. Do we have any use cases where this--? In
all data I've seen until now where coverage is used, it
is used semantically incorrectly because it most times in
library data they use it for place of publication.

__Tom__: Actually, if im not mistaken, I think that --
and it's too bad Stuart isn't here today, because I think
that the jurisdiction aspect is in the definition of
coverage because of jurisdiciton of curriculum
guidelines, and such, in education.

__Joe__: And Andrew Wilson would say in archives as well,
because you know it covers France or the Alsace region
and that's not what it's about.

__Tom__: Historically, I think that comes from the
education group.

__Joe__: Yes of course, but benefitting both communities.

__Tom__: Well, we don't have a subproperty of coverage
specifically for covering jurisdiction -- maybe we
should. Maybe we've noticed now a gap that should be
filled. Will depend on use cases.

__Stefanie__: Do they use it? this is the question.

__Tom__: You mean would they use it is that the question?

__Stefanie__: Yes, do we have any people outside of there
who need something.

__Tom__: Yes, that is the question.

__Joe__: And stuart we could ask probably.

__Tom__: There might be in education. Phil, does that
ring any bells? 

__Phil__: Yes, we have many use cases of that. You may
want to look to see where the particular licenses of
education particularlly are valid. And also, again
touching on Stuart, the legal world has a ton of
jurisdictions as far as I know. People who I know who are
writing metadata for laws are using Schema.org
jurisdiction. It is there on Schema.org so you could make
a connection there if you wanted to but I don't think
you'd be giving anyone information they couldn't get from
someone else.

__Joe__: Well, that just means that appears then under
coverage in our mapping.

__Phil__: Except we're not mapping to narrower terms.

__Tom__: So we would skip coverage, basically, and only
map to temporal and spacial coverage? And we would
recognize that there is no mapping? If people wanted to
map Schema to DC, they could use coverage as an
equivalent for jurisdiction? Should we just skip, deem no
solution to the jurisdiction part of the definition? 

__Karen__: Doesn't it kind of depend on which direction
we're going? 

__Tom__: Yes.

__Karen__: Are we trying to go both directions? 

__Stefanie__: We usually go one direction to the other
and then look on the other side. Not both in one mapping.

__Karen__: So I was assuming we were going from DC terms
to Schema.org.

__Tom__: Yes.

__Karen__: At which point we use dcterms:spatial and
dcterms:temporal.

__Stefanie__: If we look at the other side and go from
Schema to DCTERMS then we can talk about the use of
coverage.

__Tom__: Creator, looks good? 

__Stefanie__: Author is not equal term.

__Tom__: Yes, we're going to get rid of those, but does
anyone have an issues with creator to creator? 

__Stefanie__: schema:creator says: this is the same as
author and we just decided that schema:author is more
narrow than dc:creator.

__Karen__: I think that what happened here which happens
quite often when people are a bit naive and start
creating metadata: they had creative work and then they
had author, because they were thinking text, but then
they realized that there are works that don't have
authors. There are works that have illustrator so they
backed off on it, that's why they say its the same as
author.

__Phil__: This is something that needs fixing in
Schema.org.

__Tom__: But for now is the equivalence close enouph for
a close match? 

[All agree.]

----------------------------------------------------------
Date

__Stefanie__: I think we have no equivalent.

__Karen__: There is no simply date so we have to decide.

__Tom__: We could handle this a little bit the way we
handled coverage. We have dateModified, dateCreated, etc,
what if we just map at that level? 

__Karen__: dcterms:date is very commonly used so we do
have to map from it.

__Tom__: We can't because there is no equivalent.

__Karen__: But we still have to map from it. The closest
we thought to it were dateCreated and datePublished.

__Joe__: Based on use cases?

__Karen__: No, based on our own guess.

__Stefanie__: Ok, based on use cases -- you can say when
you get library data and when you find dcterms:date is
datePublished.

__Karen__: But if it's not bibliographic? 

__Stefanie__: If it's not bibliographic... I would say if
you get data from museums, it's date created. I'm not
really sure what it would be for archival data.

__Karen__: I'm thinking even broader than that, what if
it's someone describing automobiles? I want to get beyond
archival uses.

__Stefanie__: This museum/cultural heritige area uses
date created.

__Antoine__: Are we really ready to do this? That is a
bit similar to if we try to map from the old dc 15 to the
new dc terms elements. If we have dc:date we would want
them to map to dcterms:created not dcterms:issued.

__Stefanie__: No.

__Antoine__: Because that's what it is.

__Stefanie__: No, what I'm trying to say is it depends on
the data you get.

__Antoine__: But that means we should almost.

__Stefanie__: We can't map it.

__Antoine__: No.

__Tom__: So are we agreeing that that we cannot properly
map date?

__Karen__: If we're going to punt on something as
important as date, then i don't think we're doing our
job.

__Stefanie__: We can't.

__Karen__: Sure we can.

__Stefanie__: We can't do a general mapping for
dcterms:date.

__Karen__: So what are we doing?

__Antoine__: Actually, we're almost enforcing the
dcterms:recommendation to use subproperties.

__Karen__: But we're not talking about people creating
data, we're talking about someone who has data using
Dublin Core and they want to map it to Schema.org. We
can't tell people what their data should be.

__Stefanie__: Does Schema.org have end date but no start
date?

__Phil__: It has start date.

__Karen__: Start date is for something that's ongoing.

__Stefanie__: Yes, but you can map dcterms:date to start
date and end date. And you have a date period, but that's
a date.

__Phil__: We should tell people to pick one of these
subproperties that they think best matches how they used
date, and give them matches for those subproperties.

__Stefanie__: That would be a good idea.

__Joe__: I like that. It would be a good methodology for
coverage too.

__Tom__: Yes I agree with that.

__Antoine__: And that's what we do with Schema.org
mapping actually. In practice, we look at the data and we
try to map it to a specification of dcterms first.

__Phil__: Yes, and I think that's better than trying to
map narrower terms to Schema.org, because Schema.org will
be moving too much: the mapping will be unstable.

__Tom__: Does anyone disagree with that?

__Karen__: I think you're asking people to make decisins
they may not be able to make.

__Phil__: We have to ask them to make a decision somehow,
because there is nothing that they can map dcterms:date
to that doesn't run the risk of them creating garbage
data.

__Karen__: Presuming that they have received data or they
have data that has dcterms:date or dc:date, basically
what you're saying is you have to select a different
dcterms:date type. I would say you've got a date, and
here are ones it might be. I think sending them back to
Dublin Core is the thing that people aren't willing to
do. They are more likely to pick one of these that is in
your data.

__Antoine__: Different way of formulating but wouldn't
the end result be the same?

__Karen__: I think it has to do with whether you expect
people to understand their own data or whether they
understand Dublin Core. I would rather ask them questions
about their own data vs Dublin Core.

__Antoine__: Basically, you're saying that we can
internally put the recommendations in, but then we should
try to hide it in the documentation of the mapping. We
should just reflect the end result? Use this or that
property. We've made you these recommendations because we
looked at the DCTERMS mapping, but actually, for the end
result of the mapping, that's not necessary.

__Karen__: Two steps or one step? Two steps: you have
dcterms:date, now here are all of the various
dcterms:date-related properties. Pick the one you want
and then that translates to this in Schema.org. One step:
dcterms:date: here are some possibilites, use the one
that is closest. As I recall, the problme is that schema
has a lot of dates--do we want to send people hunting
around? How many dates does DC have? 

__Stefanie__: In relation to all of the properties we
have, it's also alot of properties. I mean Schema.org has
a lot of date properties, but Schema.org has more
properties overall.

__Tom__: Here they are: nine subproperties of date in
DCMI Metadata Terms.

__Antoine__: I think for all mapping in the end we only
have the mapping for dcterms:created and dcterms:issued
relative to schema terms schema:dateCreated and
schema:datePublished. I think that was a bit what I was
after when I was discussing with Karen. We can use the
dcterms subproperties of date as the rationale for
recommendation even if we don't tell it. Mainly we select
recommend Schema.org datePublished and dateCreated
because we have looked at dcterms and seen that they are
subproperties of date. We don't need to say that to the
reader of the mapping; it's all internal.

__Karen__: This is looking at the fifteen. When we go
beyond this, we will be mapping these other date
properties to something in schema.

__Joe__: So should our approach be only confirm the ones
that are exact? then come back to ones like these. It
feels strange to ignore the subproperties when the super
property is ambiguous.

__Karen__: Based on stats from years ago, by far the dc
terms that are used in data are the 15 and not to the
larger group. We may wish that they used the more
specific ones but in fact this is what's used so I don't
think we can punt on them. A lot of people are still
using dc 1.1 because they aren't doing RDF and they don't
want to have to deal with domains and ranges.

__Tom__: It looks to me that we have good EQ's for about
half of the fifteen. We are barely in on these and there
are some low hanging fruit. Format has one of those
definitions that is catch all and unlikely to have an
equivalent on Schema.org. Let's discuss process. We could
go through term-by-term on calls like this, but that
might require a lot of time until we have a policy for
terms like coverage. It would take several calls in order
to complete these mappings. Alternative: try to create
some Github issues and see if we can use the thumbs-up
feature to vote on various mappings, and then try to at
least cover some of the easier ones on Github and then
focus calls on the more difficult ones. We don't have
full consensus on how we will handle terms that have no
exact equivalent (there are several). We need to decide
whether we're going to make mappings from the broader
terms that have no equivalents or if we're going to find
some other way.

__Karen__: I think it might help if Grace and i finished
up these terms. Also would be possible for something like
format to say it could be this it could be that but
here's how to decide. Creating a document for humans and
not automatic switching.

__Stefanie__: I would like to have both machine-readable
and human-readable so that I can fix the things in my
data.

__Karen__: Then we can't give conditional choices that a
human would have to.

__Stefanie__: But we can give different choices in
human-readable version. Then in the machine-readable
version, we only give to those that are close matches,
and I need something more, and I can use this like
guidelines. When I have something machine-readable, I can
use it and I can have a look at what I also need and put
this in this group.

__Phil__: Think even machine readable versions can be
used with human guidance. Could just be if there are
three options for mapping something and you're importing
3000 data records which are all similar, could just ask
you in the beginning here are three options what of these
three options are you going to use. Would you like me to
use this option for all 3000 or would you like me to ask
each time?

__Tom__: So would we express those as narrow match? I had
thought that the group was leaning away from narrow match
but it would be more precise to say that it's not a close
match if a close match implies that these two are
interchangeable.

__Stefanie__: The question is do we always give narrow
matches or only when you use close matches? 

__Tom__: That's a really good question. It would make
sense for where we do not see a close match to provide
some narrow matches and then to provide some guidance as
to how to choose between them.

__Joe__: There may be an argument for two mappings: one
which is robust and one which is lightweight. Again,
that's more work for us though.

__Karen__: Which is which though?

__Joe__: Moving to the narrower, I think as opposed to
being more agnostic about it.

__Karen__: But are you considering that robust or
lightweight?

__Joe__: If we do not then it would be lightweight
because it would be less work on our part and more work
on the metadata curator's, whereas if we gave the
guidance it would be more work on us and they would have
fewer investigations to do.

__Tom__: How would you all like to proceed? I think it's
great if we took this a step forward and Grace and Karen
moved along with things. Great progress made in one call.
Do we want to try to schedule more calls or do we want to
try to use Github issues for the low-hanging fruit for
the ones that seem more obvious? Maybe Grace and Karen
could decide which terms are in more need of discussion.
For the clear ones, we can do Github issues and vote. We
could schedule some calls that are then more focused. How
do we feel about that as a process?

__Karen__: If we do want to do Github issues for the ones
that are difficult, we could put out a single list of
ones that we (Grace and I) think are simple and get
peoples' yes or no on that list. i think we need to make
Github issues for the more complicated ones.

__Tom__: So you're saying: use Github issues for the more
complex ones, and use the mailing list for the easier
ones?

__Karen__: Sounds good.

__Phil__: Tracking issues could be helpful so we can
determine which are done.

__Tom__: We could make another markdown issues as we
decide on particular mappings then they could be
transferred over to that document and we'd be a step
closer to publishing on the website.

__Karen__: Yes we should find a way to track - that's a
good idea.

[Thank yous and closing.]

__Tom__: I'll put out a Doodle poll for late August/early
September.

