# Usage Board telecon - 2024-03-08

These minutes: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/meetings/2024/2024-03-08.telecon_minutes.md


Participants: Adrian, Anna, Antoine, Graeme, Joe, Karen, Niklas, Nishad, Osma, Phil, Ross, Sean, Tom

Regrets: Sangeun

## Meeting Goals

See https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/123 

Niklas: Purpose today: have introduction of OpenWEMI [2] candidate for UB approval as a DCMI namespace. Assess level of support/consensus and decide next steps. Where to have detailed discussions (comments, questions, suggestions) - Github?

Karen presents slides:
- IFLA FRBR creators never developed an RDF vocabulary for FRBR.
  - Continually said: it is an abstract model, therefore cannot.
- Mid-2000s: Talis folks created FRBR core concepts in RDF, at vocab.org. Ross may have been involved. It was the only vocabulary available to people.
  - All classes were disjoint - a constraint. Everything is very linear.
- OpenWEMI aims to provide way for people to make use of these concepts.
- Superclass (Endeavor) holds everything together, then WEMI classes, some properties -- that's about it.
  - Properties more open than in library FRBR.
- Endeavor class lets people add other classes at same level as WEMI. Will show examples of subclassing.
- In IFLA FRBR, Work can only link to Expression, Expression to Manifestation, etc.
- Idea from FABIO (another FRBR): also properties to link Work to Manifestation, Work to Item.
- Many years ago, Ross Singer (at vocab.org) properties: simply say that two things that have identifiers represent a common work.
  - Take song on MusicBrainz and YouTube video, link saying "same work".
  - We added these to OpenWEMI because future of vocab.org unclear.
- We gave broad definitions to WEMI, to make them more independent of linear progression.
  - We saw that people were subclassing. "Music work" like symphony. We have collected examples in Github wiki.
  - Idea is that if you are searching, need not know exactly how people defined as long as they are connected to WEMI.
- Feel free to create issues at https://github.com/dcmi/openwemi/issues

Tom: Re: presentation of underlying concepts - not specifically OpenWEMI but FRBR itself: this notion of "entities". In OpenWEMI spec, an opportunity to clarify what is meant. A class is something that has a class extension, with instances, and instances are like entities. For years, looking for explanation of "entity". In Karen's code4lib article, talk of "abstract levels" and "planes". Maybe the entity is actually a "plane". Is it a contradiction of OpenWEMI model to say that something belongs to more than one WEMI class? Even if we avoid the word "entity", instances of classes are entity-like.

Karen: Do we use "entity" in the spec? Need to check. In 1990s, [IFLA creators] were thinking of something like database design.

Niklas: [Unclear from transcript...] New territory for DCMI. We have BIBO and SKOS-Thes. Minimal ontological commitment - great start looking forward, coordinating at very minimal level. Specific vocabularies that use this as point of coordination. One of the strengths I see here.

Tom: As point of procedure, having discussion on points of detail or presentation in Usage Board is not ideal. Propose as next step: poll, maybe on Github, to gauge level of support, something like "Yes", "Yes with revisions",  "No".

Karen: Would like discussion in OpenWEMI issue tracker.

Tom: Namespace URI is a UB issue, not working group. Could be PURL (archive.org) or under dublincore.org. Do we want to further deepen our commitment to purl.org?

Nishad: In last three years of maintaining DCMI website, PURL gives me biggest headache.

Tom: Let's use mailing list to coordinate meetings but keep discussion on issue trackers, though persistence of Microsoft's Github service is inescapably an issue.

Nishad: Yes, but OpenWEMI mailing list will always receive updates from the issue tracker. It's not a two-way bridge, but at least it's connected.

Tom: One thing SKOS specification does well, stylistically: gives examples and says "is (or not) consistent with the SKOS data model". Will create an issue.

Karen: Can give examples from IFLA FRBR, then say: if you use OpenWEMI, no longer violating constraints. Or Bibframe, which has its own FRBR-like model, could be connected to OpenWEMI. Note that BIBFRAME has dropped some domain classes - initially had domains, now seem to have dropped. Could have OpenWEMI domains.

Niklas: Uncomfortable with such changes in public vocabularies. Should perhaps be BIBFRAME 2.0. Changing ontologies is problematic.

Niklas: We did an internal session on OpenWEMI some weeks ago.

ACTION: Niklas and Tom to post poll on Github to informally gauge level of interest in approving/publishing OpenWEMI.

