---
title: 
date: '2017-09-01T16:21:09+01:00'
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/minutes/2002/2002-07-06.Meeting-notes.bath.html"
---

<pre>
Title: DC Usage Board Meeting, UKOLN
Date: 2002-07-06 
Description: These meeting notes, taken by Andy Powell and revised
                by Tom Baker, cover the DCMI Usage Board meeting of 
                12-13 May 2002 at UKOLN in Bath (UK). Because decisions
                were made near the close of the meeting that entailed
                a comprehensive reconsideration of decisions taken earlier,
                the notes do not reflect the decisions eventually 
                issued. Because they could therefore become a source
                of confusion to readers unaware of this situation, and
                because the notes themselves are incomplete and at times
                cryptic, the Board decided not to revise the notes further
                or to publish them on the public Web site. It was 
                decided not to undertake any further editing of the meeting
                notes but to leave them "as is".

Present: Tom Baker, chair
         Andy Powell, also note-taker
         Diane Hillmann
         Roland Schwaenzl
         Haruki Nagata
         Stuart Sutton
         Traugott Koch
         Rebecca Guenther
         Makx Dekkers, ex-officio member

Rachel Heery joined meeting during morning of 13 May. Traugott
left meeting after lunch on 13 May. Haruki left meeting at
about 16:45 on 13 May. The Board covered Points 1 through 6 on
Sunday, 12 May; Points 7 and 8 on Monday, 13 May.

1. Libraries new term proposals

1.1. holdingLocation

        Query relationship to an existing AGLS element
        ("Availability"). Query relationship to MARC 852
        (location) field. How domain-specific is this element?
        Do all domains have requirement for this element? What
        does domain-specific actually mean in practice?

        Current definition of this element says
        'identifies ownership' -- i.e. mixes up
        ownership/rights issues with location.

        Decision: Reject (see Point 9 below)

        Recommend use of MARC 852 (location) for this
        element.

        Recommend that values containing combination of
        institution, shelf mark and/or accession number
        can be used as a value for dc:identifier.
        Should holdingLocation be limited to physical
        objects? Definition should not refer to "ownership"; 
        consider using first sentence in comment instead.
 
        Action: Diane and Rebecca to write up message to 
        summarize decision to DC-Libraries Working Group.

1.2. accepted (Refinement of dc:date)

        Decision: Reject (see Point 9 below)

        Reason: 'accepted' is not useful for
        cross-domain resource discovery --
        rather, administrative in nature.

        Comment: 'accepted' is valid refinement of dc:date.
        Overlap with DC-Government "Acquired"
        semantically; discussion needed between WGs
        whether these should be combined.

        Recommend: If this is the only date associated
        with the resource then it should be recorded in
        an unqualified dc:date.
 
1.3. Digression: Status of elements

    Tom's diagram -- diagram 1 in 
    <a href="http://www.gmd.de/People/Thomas.Baker/bath-diagrams.ppt">http://www.gmd.de/People/Thomas.Baker/bath-diagrams.ppt</a>.

    Everything inside red line is for 'resource discovery'.
    Need some clarification about what 'resource discovery'
    means? Clarification needs to go to the WGs.

    When does a new term go inside the red line?
    Cross-domain, resource discovery. But what does that
    mean?

    Need to develop some policies about how we manage the
    left-hand area (DCMI-hosted namespaces). Persistence?
    Maintenance responsibility? DCMI branding? Policies
    for inclusion? Policies for making assertions about
    relationships between terms. UB to ask the DCMI
    Directorate to clarify the policies for hosting
    namespaces around DCMI. UB needs to be able to recommend
    that new term proposal goes into a DCMI-hosted namespace
    -- and that the term is a valid refinement of an existing
    DCMI term.

1.4. captured

        Decision: Reject (see Point 9 below)

        Reason: Not useful for cross-domain resource discovery
        -- discovery of resources not dependent on knowing when
        resource was digitized or captured.

        Comment: valid refinement of dc:date

        Recommendation: When describing a digitized (or
        captured) resource, the date of digitization (or
        capture) may be recorded in dcterms:created. If
        this is the only date associated with the
        resource then it may be recorded in an
        unqualified dc:date.
        Suggest looking at what national library Web
        archiving projects are doing. Rebecca points
        out that there is an existing element for this
        in MARC/MODS that might be reused for the
        library application profile (as is being done
        with HoldingLocation and Version).

1.5. copyright

        Decision: Reject (as per 'accepted') (see Point 9 below)

1.6. submitted 

        Decision: Reject (as per 'accepted') (see Point 9 below)

1.7. version

        Decision: Reject (see Point 9 below)

        Reason: UB could not reach consensus about
        whether 'version' is useful for cross- domain
        resource discovery or not. (Note that consensus
        was also not reached during previous vote on a
        'release' refinement for dc:description in the
        DCQ ballot).

        Comment: No consensus about whether 'version' is
        a refinement of dc:description. Recommendation:
        'version' should be added to DCMI-hosted
        namespace or use existing MARC 250 (edition)
        field. One scenario: reuse MARC 250 (or maybe
        the MODS element that is the same thing and 
        expressed in natural language).  

2. Education new-term proposal

2.1. AudienceLevel

        Noted some confusion during the comment period
        because an announcement about dcterms:audience
        had not been made.

        Noted that proposed element refinement is not
        intended to say anything about the 'mediator'
        (the only existing refinement of
        dcterms:audience).

        Decision: Accept (with modified definition)

        Recommendation: rename as 'educationLevel' and
        put into DCMI-hosted namespace (as refinement of
        dcterms:audience). Use 'Audience Education
        Level' as label.

        Comment: Diane and Stuart to propose new
        definition. Possible new definition below???

            QUALIFIER NAME: audienceLevel (audienceContext (?))

            QUALIFIER DEFINITION: A description of
            the environment or context in which the
            resource is intended to be used or for
            which it is useful.

            QUALIFIER COMMENT: Example uses include
            (but are not limited to): (1) In the
            education and training domain,
            audienceLevel may contain general
            statements describing the education or
            training sector; or, alternatively, it
            may contain a more specific statement of
            the location of the audience in terms of
            its progression through an education or
            training sector. (2) ... Where
            available, such descriptions should be
            expressed in terms drawn from recognized
            value qualifier schemes.

3. Type new-term proposal

3.1. PhysicalObject (new term in DCMIType vocabulary)

        Decision: Accept (with modified definition)

        Reason: Unclear if 'wheat' is a physical object
        or a concept. Unclear if live animals are
        included or not.

        Recommendation: Remove ', wheat' from
        definition. Change 'non-human' to 'inanimate'
        -- i.e. trees and lions are out, mummies and
        stuff animals are in. Rebecca believes this to
        be non-controversial; will pass back to WG.

3.2. Note modification to process document:  

    UB can modify wording of proposed definitions. In cases
    where the modification is determined not to be
    controversial, UB will notify the WG of the change. In
    other cases, the new definition will be recommended to
    the WG, and the new definition will go thru a formal
    comment period.

4. Documentation and Web site

    Workflow and appearance -- HTML view of pages generated
    automatically currently.

    There had been a query from LiddyN about accessibility
    of current pages -- though it was not clear to the
    meeting what problems might be. Consolidated list of
    terms is the most important document.

    Need to update DCMI namespace recommendation to document
    the old 1.0 namespace URI.

4.1. Consolidated list of terms

    Tom to remove index.shtml and index.html from all quoted URLs.

    Move superseded versions of term definitions in separate
    document.

    Change in case of names of 15 elements (Title -&gt; title). Tom,
    Andy, Roland to write up decision document w.r.t case of element
    names. Rebecca to make contact with JohnK about case of names
    in the RFC and in the NISO standard.

    Note there is an issue with the use of internal document
    citations within current definitions (e.g. citation to
    [W3CDTF]) and how these can be handled in a VMS.

    Remove distinction between 1999 elements and other elements.

    Discussion about element refinements being treated as elements.
    Possible ways forward:

    -- Leave current names, move to using standalone names for new stuff
    -- Change old names to stand-alone names
    -- Add a new set of stand-alone elements corresponding to 
       the current element refinement names
    -- Change encoding syntaxes to fit with current names
    -- Change to 'stand-alone' labels in the DCQ recommendation.

    Need to write up proposal to the advisory board to
    change current labels (alternative, ..., etc.) and to
    find way forward on naming of 'refined elements'. UB to
    report issues to DCMI Executive. Tom to write one-page
    summary of issues. (Note current activity on XML schema
    for qualified DC being done by CarlL, JaneH and PeteJ).

5. Citation new-term proposal

    Decision: Accept (in principle)

    Comments: Couldn't accept fully because proposal doesn't
    contain a definition or comment. 'citation' is
    cross-domain. 'citation' supports discovery.
    'citation' is valid refinement of dc:identifier.

    Recommendation: AP to ask WG to provide definition and
    comment. Noting the need to define 'citation' and
    bibliographic (if used). Note discussion about change
    of name to 'bibliographicCitation' and/or widening scope
    to include non-bibliographic citations.

    Proposed definition: "A reference to the [bibliographic]
    resource."

    Proposed comment: Recommended practice is to include
    sufficient detail to identify the resource as
    unambiguously as possible, whether or not in standard
    form.

6. RFC 3066
    
    Decision: Accept

7. Vocabulary registration

    Traugott gave a demo of pilot 'Vocabulary and Encoding
    Scheme Registration Tool'.

    Issue: Legacy encoding schemes -- currently have status
    'recommended'?? What should they have from now on? New
    schemes will have status 'registered'.

    Agreed (with exception of Traugott) to change the status
    of all existing encoding schemes to 'registered'. Note
    that the specifications for 'DCMI Point', 'DCMI Period'
    and 'DCMI Box' are published as DCMI recommendations --
    but these encoding schemes will have status 'registered'
    rather than status 'recommended'.

    (Note: need to remove last sentence of the 'Vocabulary
    and Encoding Scheme Registration Tool' page).

    Vote:

    1. Add status of 'recommended' to current elements and qualifiers?   
        Yes - 5, No - 2, Abstain - 1

    2. What status should be given to current encoding schemes?   
        Recommended - 2, Registered - 5, Abs - 1

    3. Create separate namespace for new encoding schemes?
        Yes - 6, No - 0, Abstain - 2

    4. If yes, what namespace? (Answer: <a href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/">http://purl.org/dc/terms/</a>)

    5. What status should be given to new encoding schemes? 
        Registered - 8, Recommended - 0

    6. If a scheme is 'registered' can it be elevated to 'recommended'?  
        Yes - 5, No - ?, Abs - ?

8. Application Profiles

    Purpose of 'review' by Usage Board is to
    -- analyze usage of DC within significant implementations
    -- assign a DCMI stamp of approval
    -- enable disclosure of profiles between communities
    -- identify new terms within application profiles.  

    'Green area' issues (see
    <a href="http://www.gmd.de/People/Thomas.Baker/bath-diagrams.ppt">http://www.gmd.de/People/Thomas.Baker/bath-diagrams.ppt</a>):

    -- Requirement to allow use of namespaces other than the
       three currently maintained by DCMI. Does DCMI have a
       role in hosting and maintaining these namespaces?
       Are any of these namespaces branded as 'DCMI
       namespaces'?

    -- Some discussion about whether the names of encoding
       schemes (e.g. 'DDC') belong in a DCMI namespace or in a
       scheme's own namespace. Also about the terms within a
       scheme belonging in a scheme-specific namespace.

    Decide what to do with DC-Lib and DC-Gov app profiles

    -- No major disagreements with Tom's strawman but
       additions/changes to wording (noted by Tom).

    -- Broad agreement that DC-Lib AP is 'well-formed' if
       the qualifiers for creator and contributor are removed.

    -- Long discussion about the 'terms landscape' and the
       status of terms. A new model was proposed -- see diagram 2 in
       <a href="http://www.gmd.de/People/Thomas.Baker/bath-diagrams.ppt">http://www.gmd.de/People/Thomas.Baker/bath-diagrams.ppt</a>.

    Vote:

    1. Explicitly assign status of 'recommended' to all legacy 
        elements and refinements? Yes - 7 (unanimous)

    2. Explicitly assign status of 'recommended' or 'registered' 
        to all legacy encoding schemes? 
        Recommended - 1, registered - 6

    3. Should 'all' conformant terms be added to the
        dcterms namespace (with appropriate status)?  
        Yes - 6 (unanimous) (Haruki seemed to be in favour as well!)

        Conformant means the term conforms to DCMI's
        grammatical principles (e.g. refines rather
        than extends, etc.) and is within the scope of
        the UB.

        Note that at the UB stage all 'conformant'
        proposals will be approved -- so very important
        to determine positive support from the WGs prior
        to proposals being made via Chair UB and DCMI
        MD. Note need to explicitly ask WG chairs to
        solicit positive support for proposals -- silence
        within WG should not be determined to mean
        support.

    4. Remove statuses of 'domain specific' and 'cross
        domain' from current terms and not use these statuses in
        the future? Yes - 6 (unanimous)

9. In light of decisions reached under Point 8, the Board
    agreed to reassess via email the "Reject" decisions reached
    under Points 1.1, 1.2, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, and 1.7 above,
    granting the status Conformant to any terms that
    "conform to DCMI grammatical principles" and loosening the
    criterion of "usefulness for resource discovery".

    Recognizing that considerable follow-up work would be
    needed to explain and document both the decisions and
    underlying models and processes, and wishing to avoid
    any confusion or misunderstanding that could arise from
    the publication of non-contextualized results (such as
    the initial Reject decisions), the Board decided to
    conduct its initial follow-up work on a mailing list not
    accessible to public monitoring on the Web.

10. Subsequent comments by Roland, May 21: We should think
    carefully about properly communicating the basic decision.
    Involved in it there was the decision, that substantial
    support for a new dc-(sub)Property must be proven and the
    way of consensus making in a working group must be
    documented as part of the proposal. Additionally we wanted
    to have an evaluation of dc-general response as part of our
    decision making. I'm not sure, whether we made any
    conclusions in this respect for the proposals we had voted
    on on day 1.

</pre>
