## DCMI Usage Board - Telecon #61 2018-08-28 Tuesday

Today: All issues related to ranges

* This agenda: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/minutes/2018/2018-08-28.dcub-telecon-agenda.md
* Expected: Tom (chair), Kai, Osma, Karen, Joe, Stefanie, Valentine, Joachim, Stuart, Jana
* Regrets: Antoine
* Unknown: Dan, Sarah

* Doodle: https://doodle.com/poll/nbxpbmqw63trfis5
* Time: 0700 San Francisco / 1400 UTC / 1600 Berlin / 1700 Helsinki
* Join: https://zoom.us/j/372487735
* Minutes: https://hackmd.io/yrVYVdn7RQuKjGy3HI4Vgw

VOTING TALLY: http://bit.ly/ub_voting_201808

----------------------------------------------------------------------
16b. Examples for Date (unfinished business from yesterday)

    EXAMPLES: 2018
	      2016-03-04
	      2017-11-05T08:15:30-05:00
	      1968/2015
	      2006/

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/16#issuecomment-416507394

----------------------------------------------------------------------
44. definition of dct:mediator

    DCMI Metadata Terms says:

        An entity that mediates access to the resource and for whom the
        resource is intended or useful.

        In an educational context, a mediator might be a parent, teacher,
        teaching assistant, or care-giver.

    The current ISO draft introduces a change of definition (truncated from the
    original) and the notion of "document accession rights":

        [An] entity that mediates access to the resource.

        Note 1 to entry: A mediator might be a parent, teacher, teaching
        assistant, care-giver, or an organization that has specified document
        accession rights to a resource.

    Discussion on 2018-08-27:
    * We agree that the current definition is confusing, even contradictory.
    * Would this change of definition violate the Namespace Policy, assuming 
      that we will amend the policy to allow semantic loosening (such as moving 
      from range to rangeIncludes)?
    * Truncating the definition arguably just loosens semantics (makes broader).
    * Adding the notion of "accession rights" does not help.
    * We agree it could be deprecated some day, with an explanatory note, but only 
      if we can point to something better.
    * We should not spend too much time on a property that is not used much on 
      the Web; rather, it is used in closed repositories of learning materials.

    The proposal on the table is to leave the definition untouched.

    See: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/44#issuecomment-416253329

----------------------------------------------------------------------
28a. Definition of dct:relation

        A related resource.

    to:

        A reference to a related resource.

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/28#issuecomment-406366787

----------------------------------------------------------------------
28b. Comment for dct:relation

    From:

        Recommended best practice is to identify the related resource by means
        of a string conforming to a formal identification system.

    to:

        Recommended practice is to identify the related resource by means of a
        URI or a string conforming to a formal identification system.

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/28#issuecomment-406493908

----------------------------------------------------------------------
28c. Definition of dct:conformsTo

    Not:

        reference to an established standard to which the described resource conforms

    Rather keep as it currently is:

        An established standard to which the described resource conforms.

    See: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/28#issuecomment-415742851

----------------------------------------------------------------------
31. Comment for dct:rightsHolder

    Proposed:

        Note 1 to entry: Recommended practice is to refer to the rights holder
        with a name or URI.

    Note that we approved, for dct:rights:

        Note 2 to entry: Recommended practice is to refer to a rights statement
        with a URI.  If this is not possible or feasible, a literal value
        (name, label, or short text) may be provided.

    See: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/31#issuecomment-416575403

----------------------------------------------------------------------
42. What should metadata creators do when a property has a non-literal range and
    they have only literals?  

    Proposed approach:

    1. We recommend URIs as the first option and provide examples.

    2. In general, we allow (though not encourage) the use of literal values.

    3. In the ISO standard, where needed, we provide usage recommendations for
       literals, especially to avoid common problems (e.g., "CC-BY" for Rights,
       "French" for Language).

    4. In the non-normative Annex B, "Dublin Core metadata as linked data",
       page 27, we add a paragraph or two briefly outlining the options for
       using literals with properties with non-literal ranges -- directly as
       the object, with blank nodes, with hash URIs -- and characterize the
       advantages and disadvantages of each approach.

    5. In our message to the world about the outcome of this whole batch of
       ISO-related decisions, we acknowledge, in addition to the above, that it
       would not actually be incorrect to use /elements/1.1/ properties but
       that using just one namespace keeps down the complexity of the data
       model and of queries.

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/42#issuecomment-405961529

----------------------------------------------------------------------
25. Comments for dct:creator (depends on 42)

    The current ISO draft has the following comment for dct:creator:

        Recommended practice is to refer to the creator with an URI.  If no
        such URI is available, it is acceptable to refer to the creator with a
        literal, such as a name or label of the creator which indicates the
        entity. Literals for personal names should be listed surname or family
        name first, followed by forename or given name. When in doubt, give the
        name as it appears, and do not invert.

    Alternatively, instead of providing cataloging rules (as above):

        This property is used to identify the creator using a standard
        identifier or a name.

    See: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/25#issuecomment-406359726

----------------------------------------------------------------------
43. Coining and applying dcam:rangeIncludes/domainIncludes

    1. That we change rdfs:range/domain into dcam:domain/rangeIncludes (or 
       similar) for properties that use non-literal values.

    2. That we not change 'rdfs:range rdfs:Literal'.

    3. That we call the properties domainIncludes/rangeIncludes.
       Counter-proposal (Karen): 
       https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind1808&L=dc-usage&P=3265

    4. Possible definitions for domainIncludes (or whatever it is called)

    --  Modeled on definition for rdfs:range
        ("Class of which a valued described by the term _is_ an instance"):

        Class of which a resource described by the term may be an instance.

    --  Following Schema.org:
        
        Relates a property to a class that is (one of) the type(s) the property
        is expected to be used on.
           
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Further attention needed

26. Literal comments for dct:format

    The current ISO draft reads:

	Note 1 to entry: Examples of dimensions include size and duration.
	
	Note 2 to entry: Recommended practice is to use a controlled vocabulary
	such as the list of Internet Media Types [MIME].

	EXAMPLES text/xml
		 4 kB
		 40 x 512 pixels
		 22 in.

    Please note @rguenther52 comment that the PREMIS ontology is removing the
    assertion that premis:hasMedium is a subproperty of dcterms:medium. See:
    https://github.com/PREMIS-OWL-Revision-Team/revise-premis-owl/issues/60 

    SEE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/26#issuecomment-406362768

