## DCMI Usage Board - Telecon #61 2018-08-28 - minutes

Today: All issues related to ranges

* These minutes: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/minutes/2018/2018-08-28.dcub-telecon-minutes.md
* Agenda: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/minutes/2018/2018-08-28.dcub-telecon-agenda.md
* Attended: Tom (chair), Kai, Osma, Karen, Joe, Stefanie, Valentine, Joachim, Stuart, Jana
* Regrets: Antoine
* Unknown: Dan, Sarah

VOTING TALLY: http://bit.ly/ub_voting_201808

----------------------------------------------------------------------
44. definition of dct:mediator

    DCMI Metadata Terms says:

        An entity that mediates access to the resource and for whom the
        resource is intended or useful.

        In an educational context, a mediator might be a parent, teacher,
        teaching assistant, or care-giver.

    The current ISO draft introduces a change of definition (truncated from the
    original) and the notion of "document accession rights":

        [An] entity that mediates access to the resource.

        Note 1 to entry: A mediator might be a parent, teacher, teaching
        assistant, care-giver, or an organization that has specified document
        accession rights to a resource.

Summary of discussion yesterday (on 2018-08-27):

* We agreed that the current definition is confusing, even contradictory.
* Would this change of definition violate the Namespace Policy, assuming 
  that we will amend the policy to allow semantic loosening (such as moving 
  from range to rangeIncludes)?
* Truncating the definition arguably just loosens semantics (makes broader).
* Adding the notion of "accession rights" does not help.
* We agree it could be deprecated some day, with an explanatory note, but only 
  if we can point to something better.
* We should not spend too much time on a property that is not used much on 
  the Web; rather, it is used in closed repositories of learning materials.

__Tom__: We discussed yesterday but need new input. Now that Karen and Kai are
here.  Do you agree to leave the definition untouched, recognizing that it 
might need to be deprecated some day?

__Karen__: See no reason not to use ISO definition - "and for whom" is 
simply confusing.

__Osma__: Agree.  Only wonder if we should spend time changing this.

__Stuart__: I see no problem with ISO definition.

__Tom__: Counterproposal yesterday was to go with ISO definition and leave 
the comment "as is".

__Stuart__: That's my preference.  I do not think that the audience for 
whom this was originally intended - educational - would have a problem 
with this.

See: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/44#issuecomment-416253329

----------------------------------------------------------------------
DECISION - approve

    [An] entity that mediates access to the resource.

    In an educational context, a mediator might be a parent, teacher,
    teaching assistant, or care-giver.

Rationale: truncating the definition does no harm.

Approve: Stuart, Osma, Tom, Karen, Kai, Valentine, Joachim, Jana

See: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/44#issuecomment-416599419

----------------------------------------------------------------------
POSTPONED - dct:date examples

    EXAMPLES: 2018
	      2016-03-04
	      2017-11-05T08:15:30-05:00
	      1968/2015
	      2006/

VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/16#issuecomment-416507394


----------------------------------------------------------------------
DECISION - definition of dct:relation

    Definition should remain unchanged:

        A related resource.

    (It must NOT be changed to: "A reference to a related resource.")

SEE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/28#issuecomment-406366787

----------------------------------------------------------------------
DECISION - Comment for dct:relation

    Comment should read:

        Recommended practice is to identify the related resource by means of a
        URI.  If this is not possible or feasible, a string conforming to a
        formal identification system may be provided.

Approve: Jana, Valentine, Kai, Karen, Jana, Stuart, Tom, Joachim.
Abstain: Osma (but fine)

VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/28#issuecomment-416606596

----------------------------------------------------------------------
DECISION - definition of dct:conformsTo

    Definition should remain unchanged:

        An established standard to which the described resource conforms.

    (It must NOT be changed to: "reference to an established standard to which
    the described resource conforms".)

See: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/28#issuecomment-415742851

----------------------------------------------------------------------
DECISION - Comment for dct:rightsHolder

    Should read:

        Note 1 to entry: Recommended practice is to refer to the rights holder
        with a URI.  If this is not possible or feasible, a literal value that 
        identifies the rights holder may be provided.

Approved: Valentine, Kai, Osma, Stuart, Jana, Tom, Stuart, Joachim

See: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/31#issuecomment-416611219

----------------------------------------------------------------------
42. What should metadata creators do when a property has a non-literal range and
    they have only literals?  

    Proposed approach:

    1. We recommend URIs as the first option and provide examples.

    2. In general, we allow (though not encourage) the use of literal values.

    3. In the ISO standard, where needed, we provide usage recommendations for
       literals, especially to avoid common problems (e.g., "CC-BY" for Rights,
       "French" for Language).

    4. In the non-normative Annex B, "Dublin Core metadata as linked data",
       page 27, we add a paragraph or two briefly outlining the options for
       using literals with properties with non-literal ranges -- directly as
       the object, with blank nodes, with hash URIs -- and characterize the
       advantages and disadvantages of each approach.

    5. In our message to the world about the outcome of this whole batch of
       ISO-related decisions, we acknowledge, in addition to the above, that it
       would not actually be incorrect to use /elements/1.1/ properties but
       that using just one namespace keeps down the complexity of the data
       model and of queries.

See: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/42#issuecomment-405961529

Discussion:

__Joachim__: Disagree, because in real life applications not just in 
one namespace.  No value in recommending "only use our namespace".

__Tom__: This is not what I mean this to say.

__Joachim__: I think it is useful to use /elements/1.1/ with literal 
values and /terms/ with non-literals.  But do not think we should argue 
for keeping to one namespace.

__Stuart__: Is this trying to get to Schema.org place: "we'd love 
to have a URI but we will be inclusive and accept literals"?

__Tom__: Re proposal to recommend use of /elements/1.1 with literal values 
and /terms/ with non...

__Stuart__: Not inclusive, because only covers the fifteen.

__Joachim__: Problem mostly occurs in Creator, Contributor, Publisher, etc.

__Jana__: Good, but if JN has issue with last part of point 5, maybe 
reword: "would not be wrong to use /elements/"?

[-- RECORDING ENDS! --]

