## DCMI Usage Board - Telecon 2018-07-03 Tuesday - minutes

* These minutes: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/minutes/2018/2018-07-03.dcub-telecon-minutes.md
* Attended: Tom (chair), Karen, Sarah, Kai, Joachim

## https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/15

__Joachim__: The online version of DCMI Metadata Terms should have clickable 
links to cited sources.

__Tom__: We should be consistent about "refinement" versus "specialization" 
versus "subproperty".

__Joachim__: For such things we should be consistent throughout documentation.
I added an issue about using non-literal values.  One decision, then retroactively 
apply to single issues.


__Joachim__: Links in comments?  Here we should have them because people will 
go to this place to look up something, however done in Hugo. Created
https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/42 as placeholder.  For ISO, could drop 
the link.

__Tom__: Agreed that for DCMIMT, we should link.  Would not work for ISO PDF.

__Joachim__: How to handle in voting process?

__Tom__: We can edit what's being voted on!  [Laughter.]  And remove it 
from text and add clarification bullets: that in ISO document, would be a 
plain text, then link.

__Kai__: Even I could edit this comment.

__Tom__: But there is a change history for each comment.

__Kai__: Re: date being a link or not, okay to change, because vote 
was about substance.

__Tom__: We create an issue about "refinement" versus whatever, decide 
there, then reflect throughout.  Decisions are subject to consistency check.

__ACTION__: Joachim to edit https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/15.

__ACTION__: Tom to create a separate issue about "refinement" versus "specialization" 
and "subproperty".

## https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/16

__Tom__: Agree with substance of https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/16#issuecomment-400667505
but alot of text.  See https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/16#issuecomment-402130837 - 
this would be more concise.  Would need to be formatted differently for ISO and DCMIMT.
Comments?

__Joachim__: ISO 8601 is a big beast that most people who just want to format a
date do not be about, so wanted to explain the profile handling, supported by
ISO -- a great thing -- and also to link to Wikipedia entry, which is a quite
close approximation for people who do not have access.  Even Juha cites it.  We
can hope that Wikipedia entry, after new ISO iteration is published, will
update.

## https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/16#issuecomment-402130837

__Karen__: Linking to Wikipedia is iffy because it changes constantly.

__Joachim__: Juha did not encourage citing in standard, but cited in email
that was copied to Github issue with his consent.

__Kai__: Agree with Karen that should not link to Wikipedia.  People who 
are smart enough to look up in Wikipedia.  If I google, end up at Wikipedia.

__Joachim__: Not helpful to users because ISO is not accessible.

__Kai__: But with standards documentation with ISO and DC terms...  I tell my 
students all the time they should not cite Wikipedia - but something well-written
and stably documented.  If this is standard and standard applies, they will 
find the information.

__Karen__: Not up to us to solve problem that ISO standard is unreachable.  
We can cite it like a document.

__Joachim__: We can link citation, then link Wikipedia there - one more 
level of indirection.  Authoritative source, but also Wikipedia page we 
think is useful.

__Karen__: Someone could turn that page into a picture of a pig.  Would 
get reverted fast; but not authoritative.  If you are in an institution 
that has access to ISO standard, when you click you will get ISO standard.

__Tom__: We should ask Juha.

__Kai__: Can we create DCMI page for that?  A usage guide?

__Joachim__: Wikipedia page is updated.

__Kai__: We could do the same.

__Tom__: A DCMI profile for ISO 8601??

__Joachim__: Really large endeavor.  Saw an open date-time standard effort, but
huge issue, far too much.

__Karen__: There is a W3C page - https://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-datetime.  I think 
we have to link to ISO; problem that it is not available is not our problem.

__Joachim__: Would help users to link to Wikipedia.

__Tom__: We should ask Juha.  Tend to agree that not enthusiastic to link 
to Wikipedia page.  Alot of people turn to Wikipedia anyway.  Do not need to 
tell them to google 'ISO 8601'.  Would like to have standard bibliographic 
citation.

__Kai__: This comment is good; covers most cases.  If I have further 
requirements, need to search further anyway.

__Joachim__: We have difference on Wikipedia or not, but otherwise agree on 
more concise proposal.

__Tom__: If we agree we should be voting on https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/16#issuecomment-402130837 
should add link.

__Joachim__: Before voting, should decide re: Wikipedia.  Juha should get 
notification - let's wait 1-2 days.  

__Joachim__: Linked to Sarah's proposal to dct:creator - how to deal with
non-literal values, not discuss on per-property basis.  Should we consider
dcelements: deprecated?  Or give guidance for using literal values for /terms/?
Occurs several places.  Opened https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/42.

__Tom__: Will also comment on Issue #42 (see dc-usage mailing list).  We 
seem to be moving towards listing all range restrictions (except for literal 
range restrictions), for all properties that require a non-literal value, 
general message will be that non-literal value (or URI) is recommended, but 
if you do not have a URI available, you can use a literal.  If that's the 
case - do not want to _deprecate_ 1.1 - but can say that not necessary to 
use 1.1.

__Joachim__: I think it would be against recommended practice if we do not 
drop this.  We should recommend use of non-literal values (e.g., dct:creator) 
and add guidance that if NLV not available, and if an /elements/1.1/ exists, 
should use that property instead of /terms/.  Rationale: normally easier for 
data provider to distinguish between literals and URIs according to property.
In applications, decide: can they display literal value as is, without further 
information, or do they have to look up the URI to get the label?

__Sarah__: Consumers just need to see whether property is /elements/ or /terms/.

__Joachim__: Not based on string parsing.

__Karen__: Ideally, makes sense.  But fact is that DC terms definition does 
not necessarily change what people do.  We can try, but consumers of data will 
need to check in any case, because nothing to force people.  Dan has commented, 
said this.  We can advice people, but cannot enforce.

__Joachim__: We cannot enforce, but I was surprised at Osma's value type
statistics in both OpenLink and LODALOD datasets -- quite good (consistent).

__Karen__: Those are RDF datasets - and you would expect people using RDF 
to use URIs.

__Joachim__: But those are only datasets we have.

__Karen__: Must accept that some people will be using strings.  And I think 
sending people back to 1.1...  What was the intention of creating /terms/?

__Tom__: To add domains and ranges without breaking existing data.

__Karen__: Feel we should strongly recommend -- not show examples of 
strings -- but not send them back to 1.1.  1.1 elements were brought 
into /terms/, so people should just use /terms/.

__Kai__: Also what about terms that are _not_ in 1.1 ?  There are only 
fifteen in 1.1.

__Joachim__: But that is an argument only for these elements -- the most-used 
things.  Many things used only infrequently.

__Kai__: When changing range to rangeIncludes, we would allow literals 
anyway.

__Joachim__: Question: do we keep recommendation to use NLV here?

__Kai__: Would certainly keep recommendation to use NLV - right thing to do.

__Sarah__: Or just recommend to use NLV and leave [use of literals] open.

__Joachim__: Good pattern for data publishers - they can decide which 
property to attact.  Doesn't make sure this will be done consistently, 
but on a per-dataset basis, publisher can stick to this decision.  What 
we did in statistics -- how much are literals and how much URIs. 

__Kai__: If we recommend using /elements/ with literals.  But we do not 
know that /elements/ are _NOT_ used with NLV.  As an implementer, must 
do the check anyway.

__Joachim__: We can recommend the pattern for data publishers: literal 
values with /elements/, NLV with /terms/.

__Kai__: As a programmer, reality is that you need to check anyway.

__Joachim__: But must check every value, but a single data provider 
can do this consistently.

__Kai__: If you have to _mix_, gets ugly in SPARQL queries.  If want 
to have trivial: "All things published by 'Kai Eckert'" (a literal).

__Sarah__: We use dct:creator for URIs and dc:creator for literals.

__Joachim__: We also want to do this in Econ[Bis] dataset, composed 
of different sources, with subjects both of literal and non-literal 
values.  Great mechanism to distinguish.

__Kai__: Must deal with fact that mixed.  The fact that it is 
L/NLV is still there.

__Joachim__: Evaluate "is IRI" or "is literal" -- not trivial to 
get statistics on that.

__Kai__: Isn't it possible in SPARQL to check for URI?

__Joachim__: Can filter, but a more complex construct, because if 
you just filter, you lose one part or the other.  This seems like a 
bigger discussion.  I know Osma has an opinion.

__Tom__: [Quoting Osma:] "Better to use dcterms: property with a literal, even
if it goes against a recommendation, than having to use some other property.
Recommendation would always give priority to using URI and maybe wouldn't even
mention a literal.  Or maybe it would say: if you do not have one, use..."

__Joachim__: Suggest we discuss in issue
https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/42.  I can do some statistics on DC
elements, to get an indication of use.

ACTION: Joachim to post statistics about usage of /elements/ in Issue #42.

__Tom__: Eventually, will need to write explanation to world that makes 
Dan's point about shifting burden from creator to consumer, difficulty of 
making SPARQL queries, etc.  But need to make sure we are in agreement 
about position.
