## DCMI Usage Board - Telecon #60 2018-08-27 Monday

Today's call: All issues _not_ related to ranges

* This agenda: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/blob/master/minutes/2018/2018-08-27.dcub-telecon-agenda.md
* Expected: Tom (chair), Kai, Osma, Karen, Joe, Stefanie, Valentine, Joachim, Stuart
* Regrets: Antoine
* Unknown: Jana, Dan, Sarah

* Doodle: https://doodle.com/poll/nbxpbmqw63trfis5
* Time: 0700 San Francisco / 1400 UTC / 1600 Berlin / 1700 Helsinki
* Join: https://zoom.us/j/724264710
* Minutes: https://hackmd.io/yrVYVdn7RQuKjGy3HI4Vgw

VOTING TALLY: http://bit.ly/ub_voting_201808

----------------------------------------------------------------------
8. The definition of dct:available currently reads:

        Date (often a range) that the resource became or will become available.
   
   After discussion of various alternatives, it is proposed to change 
   "often" to "sometimes":

        Date (sometimes a range) that the resource became or will become available.

   VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/8#issuecomment-402155229

----------------------------------------------------------------------
10. The ISO draft adds a comment for the class dct:Frequency:

        Examples of frequency include the publication frequencies of journals
        and newspapers.

    Note that DCMI Metadata Terms already uses comments (e.g., for Agent) to
    characterize examples of class instances.  For consistency with existing 
    comments, "Frequency" should be written in uppercase:

        Examples of Frequency include the publication frequencies of journals
        and newspapers.

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/10#issuecomment-406180566

----------------------------------------------------------------------
14. The comment for dct:audience currently proposed in the ISO draft reads:

        This property is intended to be used with non-literal values from a formal
        or informal vocabulary of audience types.

    However, following suggestions from Juha, Karen, and Antoine (and for 
    consistency with other comments in DCMIMT), it should perhaps read:

        Best practice is to use this property with non-literal values from a
        vocabulary of audience types.

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/14#issuecomment-406182290

----------------------------------------------------------------------
15. For subproperties of Date, the current ISO draft includes the comment:

        Note 1 to entry: Recommended practice is to describe date, time, or
        period as recommended for the property Date, of which this property is
        a refinement.

    After some discussion, it looks to me like this fairly reflects our rough
    consensus, unless anyone would like to argue that "refinement" (which is
    consistent with DCMIMT usage) should be replaced with "subproperty" or
    "specialization".

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/15#issuecomment-406208589

----------------------------------------------------------------------
16. In the current ISO draft, the comment and examples for dct:date read:

        Note 1 to entry: Date may be used to express temporal information at
        any level of granularity.  Recommended practice is to express the date,
        time, or period according to a published profile of ISO 8601 [ISO
        8601], such as the W3C Note on Date and Time Formats [W3CDTF] or the
        (proposed) Extended Date/Time Format [EDTF].

    This agrees in substance with earlier proposals that met with agreement.
    If we agree to drop Note 2, I believe we have 7 votes to approve this but,
    to be certain, we should please confirm these votes.

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/16#issuecomment-415328915

----------------------------------------------------------------------
17. Comment for dct:dateCopyrighted

    After rejecting the proposal for a longer comment for dct:dateCopyrighted
    from the ISO WG, we have converged on:

        Typically a year.

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/17#issuecomment-401287232

----------------------------------------------------------------------
18. The comment for dct:identifier currently reads:

        Recommended best practice is to identify the resource by means of a
        string confirming to a formal identification system.

    Discussion has converged on:

        Recommended practice is to identify the resource by means of a string
        conforming to an identification system. Examples of identification
        systems include the Uniform Resource Name (URN), the Digital Object
        Identifier (DOI), and the International Standard Book Number (ISBN).

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/18#issuecomment-406199497 

----------------------------------------------------------------------
24. The definition (and usage comment) of dct:creator currently read:

        An entity primarily responsible for making the resource.
        Examples of a Creator include a person, an organization, or a service.

    The ISO WG proposed that the comment be folded into the definition. In the
    discussion, the word "primarily" emerged as problematic.  Sarah proposed:

        An entity, such as a person, organization, or service, responsible for
        creating the resource.

    As of July 19, Tom has voted thumbs-up.  Comment/vote at:
    https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/24#issuecomment-406002079

----------------------------------------------------------------------
35. Where to put recommendation regarding separation of statements?

    Proposal: add a sentence to the ISO 15836-2 non-normative Annex B, page 27:

          Linked Data is expressed in statements with just one value per
          statement; multiple values should be placed in multiple statements.
          (This is a good practice for metadata in general.)

    Then Delete the extra sentences in the comments to `accrualPolicy` and
    `accrualMethod` that say: "Where multiple policies apply, a separate
    statement should be used for each policy."

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/35#issuecomment-405987320

----------------------------------------------------------------------
41. In comments, should we refer to "non-literal value" or "URI"?
    The ISO standard would include the following terminological definitions.

    literal
        string of Unicode characters, typically letters or integers,
        combined with an optional language tag or datatype

    non-literal value
        in RDF context, either a blank node or URI.

        Note 1 to entry: In Dublin Core context, non-literal value is a URI.

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/41#issuecomment-405972147

----------------------------------------------------------------------
44. The definition of dct:mediator currently reads:

        An entity that mediates access to the resource and for whom the
        resource is intended or useful.

        In an educational context, a mediator might be a parent, teacher,
        teaching assistant, or care-giver.

    After much discussion, including a clarification from Stuart about the
    meaning originally intended and a suggestion that the property perhaps be
    deprecated entirely, the current ISO draft says:

        [An] entity that mediates access to the resource.

        Note 1 to entry: A mediator might be a parent, teacher, teaching
        assistant, care-giver, or an organization that has specified document
        accession rights to a resource.

    This introduces a change of definition (truncated from the original) and 
    the notion of "document accession rights".  

    SEE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/44

======================================================================
Issues from Tuesday's call (time permitting)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
22. Comment and examples for dct:language - the ISO draft currently says:

    Note 1 to entry: Recommended practice is to use either a non-literal value
    representing a language from a controlled vocabulary such as ISO 639-2 or ISO
    639-3, or a literal value consisting of an IETF Best Current Practice
    47 [BCP 47] language tag.

    EXAMPLES  http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/iso639-2/eng
		(English language in the Library of Congress vocabulary of ISO 639-2 languages)
	      http://iso639-3.sil.org/code/eng
		(English language in the SIL International vocabulary of ISO 639-3 languages)
	      en-US (BCP 47 tag for American English)
	      zh-Hant-HK (BCP 47 tag for Hong Kong Chinese in Traditional script)
	      http://catalogue.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/cb119308987 (English language in Rameau)

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/22#issuecomment-406253315

----------------------------------------------------------------------
23. Literal example for dct:coverage

    We appear to agree that Coverage is too broadly defined and 
    that the usage comment should encourage use of the existing more 
    specific properties.  Tom has proposed:

        Because Coverage, for historical reasons, was so broadly defined, it is
        preferable, where possible, to use the more specific properties
        Temporal Coverage and Spatial Coverage.

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/23#issuecomment-415335780

----------------------------------------------------------------------
29. Pointer to User Guide in dct:relation

    The ISO draft adds:

        Note 2 to entry: Dublin Core Usage guide contains more information
        about various relations and how they should be encoded.

    As of August 23, there are three votes to reject this (e.g., it 
    is not the role of a particular usage comment to reference the 
    user guide).

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/29#issuecomment-406318810

----------------------------------------------------------------------
30. Literal value for dct:rights

    The latest iteration of the ISO draft adds a second comment for 
    dct:rights which, when slightly edited to match the DCMIMT style, 
    reads:

        Note 2 to entry: Recommended practice is to refer to a rights
        statement with a URI.  If this is not possible or feasible,
        a short textual description of rights may be provided.

    VOTE: https://github.com/dcmi/usage/issues/30#issuecomment-406321858

