---
title: Editorial changes to terms in DCMES
date: 2017-09-01
description: 
draft: false
creators: []
contributors: []
publisher: 
tags: []
aliases:
- "/usage/decisions/2006/2006-03.dcmes-changes.shtml"
notes: 
annotation: 
---

<!--#include virtual="/ssi/header.shtml" --><pre>
Title: Editorial changes to terms in the Dublin Core 
              Metadata Element Set (DCMES)
Identifier: <a href="/usage/decisions/2006/2006-03.dcmes-changes.shtml">http://dublincore.org/usage/decisions/2006/2006-03.dcmes-changes.shtml</a>
Date: 2006-12-18

1. About this decision text

In 2006, the DCMI Usage Board undertook an editorial revision
of terms in the Dublin Core Metadata Element Set (DCMES)
in order to clarify intended semantics and bring the wording
of their definitions and usage comments into line with the
language of the DCMI Abstract Model [DCAM].  

An initial set of changes was posted for Public Comment from
28 August to 25 September 2006 [PUBLIC-COMMENT]. The comments
received were discussed at a face-to-face Usage Board meeting
in Manzanillo, Mexico, on 30 September 2006 [MANZANILLO]. This
document reflects decisions taken with respect to the Public
Comment document in Manzanillo [MANZANILLO-DECISIONS] and on a
subsequence teleconference of 27 October [TELECON-DECISIONS].
A separate document details the response to comments made
[RESPONSE].

The wordings recorded here are reflected in revised versions
of the documents "DCMI Metadata Terms" [DCTERMS], "Dublin Core
Metadata Element Set, Version 1.1: Reference Description"
[DCMES], and "DCMI Metadata Terms: A complete historical
record" [DCTERMS-HISTORY].

All of the changes recorded here were evaluated by the DCMI
Usage Board in light of the DCMI Namespace Policy [NAMESPACE].
The namespace policy says that DCMI terms are identified using
Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs). In accordance with the
principle that distinct URIs should be assigned to distinct
resources, the policy sets limits on the range of editorial
changes that may allowably be made to the official labels,
definitions, and usage comments associated with DCMI terms.
By policy, any changes of meaning judged "likely to have a
substantial impact on either machine processing of DCMI terms
or the functional semantics of the terms" must trigger the
creation of a new, distinct term with a new, distinct URI.

In the opinion of the Usage Board, the changes described in
this document are unlikely to have a substantial impact on
either machine processing of DCMI terms or the functional
semantics of the terms -- i.e., they fall within the
allowable range of editorial change. The changes constitute
clarifications of term semantics in light of improved
theoretical understanding, user feedback, and implementation
experience. They provide the final twist of the lens that
brings intended meanings more sharply into focus.

2. Decision texts

2.1. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/title
      Label: Title
      Definition: A name given to the resource.
      Comment: Typically, a Title will be a name by which 
                      the resource is formally known.
  
2.2. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/creator
      Label: Creator
      Definition: An entity primarily responsible for making 
                      the resource.
      Comment: Examples of a Creator include a person, an
                      organization, or a service. Typically, the name
                      of a Creator should be used to indicate the entity.
  
2.3. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/subject
      Label: Subject
      Definition: The topic of the resource.
      Comment: Typically, the topic will be represented using
                      keywords, key phrases, or classification codes.
                      Recommended best practice is to use a controlled
                      vocabulary. To describe the spatial or temporal 
                      topic of the resource, use the Coverage element.
  
2.4. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/description
      Label: Description
      Definition: An account of the resource.
      Comment: Description may include but is not limited to:
                      an abstract, a table of contents, a graphical
                      representation, or a free-text account of
                      the resource.
  
2.5. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/publisher
      Label: Publisher
      Definition: An entity responsible for making the resource 
                      available.
      Comment: Examples of a Publisher include a person, an
                      organization, or a service. Typically, the name of
                      a Publisher should be used to indicate the entity.
  
2.6. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/contributor
      Label: Contributor
      Definition: An entity responsible for making
                      contributions to the resource.
      Comment: Examples of a Contributor include a person,
                      an organization, or a service. Typically, the
                      name of a Contributor should be used to indicate
                      the entity.
  
2.7. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/date
      Label: Date
      Definition: A point or period of time associated with an 
                      event in the lifecycle of the resource.
      Comment: Date may be used to express temporal information
                      at any level of granularity. Recommended best 
                      practice is to use an encoding scheme, such as 
                      the W3CDTF profile of ISO 8601 [W3CDTF].
  
2.8. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/type
      Label: Type
      Definition: The nature or genre of the resource.
      Comment: Recommended best practice is to use a controlled
                      vocabulary such as the DCMI Type Vocabulary
                      [DCMITYPE]. To describe the file format, physical
                      medium, or dimensions of the resource, use the
                      Format element.
  
2.9. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/format
      Label: Format
      Definition: The file format, physical medium, or dimensions
                      of the resource.
      Comment: Examples of dimensions include
                      size and duration. Recommended best practice is
                      to use a controlled vocabulary such as the list
                      of Internet Media Types [MIME].
  
2.10. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/identifier
      Label: Identifier
      Definition: An unambiguous reference to the resource within
                      a given context.
      Comment: Recommended best practice is to identify the
                      resource by means of a string conforming
                      to a formal identification system. 
  
2.11. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/source
      Label: Source
      Definition: The resource from which the described 
                      resource is derived.
      Comment: The described resource may be derived from the
                      related resource in whole or in part. Recommended
                      best practice is to identify the related resource
                      by means of a string conforming to a formal
                      identification system.
  
2.12. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/language
      Label: Language
      Definition: A language of the resource.
      Comment: Recommended best practice is to use a controlled
                      vocabulary such as RFC 3066 [RFC3066].
  
2.13. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/relation
      Label: Relation
      Definition: A related resource.
      Comment: Recommended best practice is to identify the
                      related resource by means of a string conforming
                      to a formal identification system. 
  
2.14. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/coverage
      Label: Coverage
      Definition: The spatial or temporal topic of the resource, the
                      spatial applicability of the resource, or the 
                      jurisdiction under which the resource is relevant.
      Comment: Spatial topic may be a named place or a location 
                      specified by its geographic coordinates. Temporal
                      period may be a named period, date, or date
                      range. A jurisdiction may be a named administrative
                      entity or a geographic place to which the resource
                      applies. Recommended best practice is to use a 
                      controlled vocabulary such as the Thesaurus of
                      Geographic Names [TGN]. Where appropriate, named 
                      places or time periods can be used in preference
                      to numeric identifiers such as sets of coordinates
                      or date ranges.
  
2.15. URI: http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/rights
      Label: Rights
      Definition: Information about rights held in and 
                      over the resource.
      Comment: Typically, rights information includes 
                      a statement about various property rights 
                      associated with the resource, including 
                      intellectual property rights.

3. General categories of change

3.1. Replacement of the phrase "the content of the
     resource" (or "intellectual content of the resource")
     with "the resource".
 
     Implementation experience has shown the semantic
     distinction between a resource and the "content of"
     a resource to be a source of confusion.
 
     According to the DCMI Abstract Model, a DCMI metadata
     description "describes one, and only one, resource"
     [DCAM]. In the DCMI context, this principle dates
     back to 1997, when it was known as the "one-to-one
     principle". When the one-to-one principle is
     correctly followed, the semantic restriction to
     "the content of" a resource is in effect redundant.

     Moreover, Dublin Core elements are used to describe
     things other than document-like resources -- things such
     as physical objects and abstract concepts. For example,
     a stuffed animal has a Creator (perhaps a taxidermist, 
     or an artist) but that person is not specifically the 
     creator of "the content of" the stuffed animal. In light 
     of current usage, the meaning of the original distinction 
     between a resource and its content is no longer clear.

     In the opinion of the Usage Board, dropping the words
     "the content of" from definitions affirms the semantics of
     these terms as they have been understood in practice and
     with no significant practical impact on implementation.

     This change is relevant to the definitions of Contributor,
     Creator, Coverage, Description, Subject, Type, and
     Language.

3.2. Replacement of the phrase "a reference to a resource"
     with "a resource".

     In metadata, a related resource can be "referred to" only
     by means of a "reference", whether that reference is a
     text description or a formal identifier. The extra words
     are therefore redundant. The recommendation that formal
     identifiers be used is retained in the usage comments.

     This change is relevant to the definitions of Source
     and Relation and to the comment for Description.

3.3. Replacement of phrases such as "use a value from an
     encoding scheme" and "select a value from a controlled
     vocabulary" with "use a controlled vocabulary".

     The wording "use a controlled vocabulary" is more
     concise. The term "controlled vocabulary" is intentionally
     broad.

     This change is relevant to the comments for Coverage,
     Format, Subject, and Type.

3.4. Deletion of word "Resource" from the labels "Resource 
     Type" and "Resource Identifier".

     In the DCMI context, the terms Type and Identifier are
     the only two to have used the qualifier "resource" in
     their labels. For example, Title is not called "Resource
     Title" and Date not "Resource Date". This inconsistency
     has been corrected by dropping the unnecessary reference
     to "resource" in the labels of Type and Identifier.
     This change also brings the labels of the elements ("Type"
     and "Identifier") in line with their names ("type" and
     "identifier").

3.5. Replacement of the phrase "a string or number conforming
     to a formal identification system" with "a string conforming
     to a formal identification system".
 
     A number is also a string, so the words "or number"
     are redundant.
 
     This change is relevant to the comments for Identifier,
     Relation, and Source.

4. Changes with respect to DCMES of June 2005 [DCMITERMS], term by term

4.1. Title
      
      No changes.

4.2. Creator

      -- In definition, replaces "content of the resource"
         with "resource" [see Section 3.1]

4.3. Subject   

      -- Changes label from "Subject and Keywords" to
         "Subject". It continues to be acknowledged in the
         comment that a subject may be expressed with keywords.
         This change also brings the label of the element 
         ("Subject") in line with its name ("subject").

      -- In the comment, advises that the Coverage element
         be used to describe the spatial or temporal topic
         of the resource.

      -- In definition, replaces "content of the resource"
         with "resource" [see Section 3.1]

      -- In comment, replaces "use a value from an encoding
         scheme" with "use a controlled vocabulary" [see
         Section 3.3]

      -- In comment, "expressed as" reworded as "represented using".

4.4. Description

      -- In definition, replaces "content of the resource" 
         with "resource" [see Section 3.1]

      -- In comment, replaces "a reference to a resource" with "resource" 
         [see Section 3.2]

4.5. Publisher

      -- In definition, addition of missing full stop.

4.6. Contributor

      -- In definition, replaces "content of the resource"
         with "resource" [see Section 3.1]

4.7. Date

      -- As with Language [see Section 4.12], the reference to a 
         specific encoding scheme in the comment is changed from
         "recommended best practice" to the status of an example.
         Hence: "Recommended best practice is to use an encoding
         scheme, such as the W3CDTF profile of ISO 8601 [W3CDTF]".
   
      -- The intended scope of the Date element has been the object
         of much discussion in the DCMI community. In practice,
         Date has long been interpreted to include the notion of a
         date range. The release in July 2000 of a first set of
         "Dublin Core qualifiers" -- which included Available,
         defined as referring to a "date (often a range)" --
         consolidated this interpretation. The Usage Board has
         now brought the definition of Date into line with this
         long-standing practical interpretation by explicitly
         allowing date ranges. Hence: "A point or period of
         time associated with an event in the lifecycle of the
         resource."

4.8. Type

      -- In definition, replaces "content of the resource"
         with "resource" [see Section 3.1]

      -- In comment, replaces the phrase "select a value from
         a controlled vocabulary" with "use a controlled vocabulary"
         [see Section 3.3]

      -- In label, changes "Resource Type" to "Type" [see Section 3.4]

4.9. Format    

      -- The definition of Format as "The physical or
         digital manifestation of the resource" has been a
         source of confusion. For example, it is sometimes
         misinterpreted as referring to a related resource
         that is a "manifestation" in the sense of Functional
         Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR).

      -- The new wording moves words from the original comment
         for Format into the definition in order to describe
         the intended meaning more concretely.

      -- In comment, replaces "select a value from an encoding
         scheme" with "use a controlled vocabulary" [see
         Section 3.3]

4.10. Identifier
 
      -- Definition unchanged.

      -- In comment, replaces "a string or number conforming
         to a formal identification system" with "a string
         conforming to a formal identification system"
         [see Section 3.5]

      -- In label, changed "Resource Identifier" to
         "Identifier" [see Section 3.4]

      -- In comment, deletes references to specific
         identification systems
 
4.11. Source

      -- In the definition, changes "present resource" to
         "described resource", both more precise and consistent
         with the DCMI Abstract Model

      -- In definition, replaces "a reference to a resource" with "resource" 
         [see Section 3.2]

      -- In comment, replaces "a string or number conforming to a formal 
         identification system" with "a string conforming to a formal 
         identification system" [see Section 3.5]

4.12. Language

      -- Six of the fifteen elements of DCMES -- Type, Format,
         Coverage, Subject, Language, and Date -- are
         recommended to be used with encoding schemes.
         Only in the cases of Language and Date, however,
         did the comments prescribe specific encoding schemes.
         In current DCMI practice, the prescription of encoding
         schemes (i.e., of "controlled vocabularies" - see
         Section 3.3) is seen as being more properly the role
         of an application profile, not of a term declaration.
         The Usage Board therefore amended the comment to
         reflect this, retaining a reference to one controlled
         vocabulary as an example.

      -- In definition, replaces "content of the resource" 
         with "resource" [see Section 3.1]

      -- In comment, replaces "use a value from an encoding
         scheme" with "use a controlled vocabulary" [see
         Section 3.3]

4.13. Relation

      -- In definition, replaces "a reference to a resource"
         with "resource" [see Section 3.2]

      -- In comment, replaces "a string or number conforming to
         a formal identification system" with "a string conforming
         to a formal identification system" [see Section 3.5]

4.14. Coverage

      The scope and purpose of Coverage has been a topic
      of much discussion and interpretation. The wordings
      proposed by the Usage Board address several issues:

      -- Use of the word "extent" in the definition.

         The use of "extent" in Coverage has caused confusion
         with respect to Format (the comment of which refers to
         "dimensions" such as "size" and "duration") and to
         the term Extent -- a refinement of Format defined as
         "The size or duration of the resource".

         The new definition replaces the ambiguous phrase
         "extent or scope of the content of the resource"
         with the phrase "spatial or temporal topic of the
         resource".

      -- Reference in the comment to "jurisdiction".

         The notion of "jurisdiction" entered into the scope of
         Coverage at an early date as part of the comment and
         has informed a significant number of implementations.
         The Usage Board has made this meaning explicit by
         referring to "jurisdiction" in the definition itself.

     -- In definition, replaces "content of the resource"
        with "resource" [see Section 3.1]

     -- In comment, replaces the phrase "select a value from
        a controlled vocabulary" with "use a controlled
        vocabulary" [see Section 3.3]

4.15. Rights    

      The definition remains unchanged as "Information about
      rights held in and over the resource". However, several
      long-recognized problems have been corrected as follows:

      -- The label has been changed from "Rights Management"
         to "Rights". The reference to "management" had more
         to do with possible uses of the element than with
         the substance of the element itself. This change
         also brings the label of the element ("Rights") into
         line with its name ("rights").

      -- The comment previously referred both to a "statement"
         and to a reference to a "service" that provides
         such a statement. The Usage Board sees this as an
         implementation issue not appropriately addressed in a 
         usage comment.
      
     -- The qualification that "no assumptions may be made"
        if the element is absent was removed from the comment.
        The point is inappropriate because it implies that 
        the element can only be used (or not) as part of a 
        fixed element set.

REFERENCES

[DC-GENERAL] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/lists/dc-general.html">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/lists/dc-general.html</a>
[DCAM] <a href="/documents/abstract-model/">http://dublincore.org/documents/abstract-model/</a>
[DCMES] <a href="/documents/dces/">http://dublincore.org/documents/dces/</a>
[DCMITERMS] <a href="/documents/2005/06/13/dcmi-terms/">http://dublincore.org/documents/2005/06/13/dcmi-terms/</a>
[DCTERMS-HISTORY] <a href="/usage/terms/history/">http://dublincore.org/usage/terms/history/</a>
[DCTERMS] <a href="/documents/dcmi-terms/">http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/</a>
[MANZANILLO-DECISIONS] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0611&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;P=1110">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0611&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;P=1110</a>
[MANZANILLO] <a href="/usage/meetings/2006/09/manzanillo/dcmes-changes/html/">http://dublincore.org/usage/meetings/2006/09/manzanillo/dcmes-changes/html/</a>
[NAMESPACE] <a href="/documents/dcmi-namespace/">http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-namespace/</a>
[PUBLIC-COMMENT] <a href="/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/">http://dublincore.org/usage/public-comment/2006/08/dcmes-changes/</a>
[RESPONSE] <a href="/usage/decisions/2006/2006-03.response-to-comments.shtml">http://dublincore.org/usage/decisions/2006/2006-03.response-to-comments.shtml</a>
[TELECON-DECISIONS] <a href="http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0611&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;P=1219">http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A2=ind0611&amp;L=dc-usage&amp;P=1219</a>

Errata
2006-12-21: corrected "organisation" to "organization"
</pre>
